guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/build-configuration-and-conclusion.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Build configuration and conclusion
nav_title: Build configuration and conclusion
order: 8
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to reconfigure your build commands following a migration to the
  Unified Configuration file format.
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Once you have completed the migration checklist, open your Site in CloudCannon and review your configuration. Once you are happy with your changes, you can merge your branch with your main Site branch.

Open your main Site in CloudCannon and check the *Step 2: Use Unified Configuration* flag in your *Site Settings*.

## Build configuration

CloudCannon uses a different build configuration for Sites with the Unified Configuration file format. We recommend reviewing your build configuration to familiarize yourself with the new page layout and see if you can simplify your build commands.

For Eleventy, Hugo, and Jekyll Sites, checking the *Use Unified Configuration* flag in your *Site Settings* will clear all your build commands. For these SSGs, reconfiguring your build commands is essential.

To configure your Site builds:

1. Navigate to the *Build configuration* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Under *Command line options*, enter your *Install Command*, *Build Command*, and *Output Path*. You can click on CloudCannon's suggested values to use them in your configuration.
3. Click the *Update Configuration and Build* button.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  CloudCannon will suggest command line options based on your SSG and the contents of your Site files.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/configure-your-first-build/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Build-Configuration-Setup.png" alt="A screenshot of the Build Configuration page shows blue boxes containing CloudCannon's suggestions for your command line options." title="The Build Configuration page" type="screenshot"/>

## Migration conclusion

Finally, build your Site to remove any existing build integration output from previous builds. If you updated your build commands, CloudCannon will automatically trigger a build for you.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Even if you are planning to switch to [Headless Mode](/documentation/articles/what-is-headless-mode/), we recommend completing a final build before you switch.
</comp.Notice>

You have migrated your Site to the Unified Configuration file format!

If you have any questions about this migration guide or need assistance, please contact our friendly [support team](/support/). We're always here to help.

Commit message:

Add migration section regarding URL configuration

guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/build-configuration-and-conclusion.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Build configuration and conclusion
nav_title: Build configuration and conclusion
order: 8
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to reconfigure your build commands following a migration to the
  Unified Configuration file format.
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Once you have completed the migration checklist, open your Site in CloudCannon and review your configuration. Once you are happy with your changes, you can merge your branch with your main Site branch.

Open your main Site in CloudCannon and check the *Step 2: Use Unified Configuration* flag in your *Site Settings*.

## Build configuration

CloudCannon uses a different build configuration for Sites with the Unified Configuration file format. We recommend reviewing your build configuration to familiarize yourself with the new page layout and see if you can simplify your build commands.

For Eleventy, Hugo, and Jekyll Sites, checking the *Use Unified Configuration* flag in your *Site Settings* will clear all your build commands. For these SSGs, reconfiguring your build commands is essential.

To configure your Site builds:

1. Navigate to the *Build configuration* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Under *Command line options*, enter your *Install Command*, *Build Command*, and *Output Path*. You can click on CloudCannon's suggested values to use them in your configuration.
3. Click the *Update Configuration and Build* button.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  CloudCannon will suggest command line options based on your SSG and the contents of your Site files.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/configure-your-first-build/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Build-Configuration-Setup.png" alt="A screenshot of the Build Configuration page shows blue boxes containing CloudCannon's suggestions for your command line options." title="The Build Configuration page" type="screenshot"/>

Finally, build your Site to remove any existing build integration output from previous builds. If you updated your build commands, CloudCannon will automatically trigger a build for you.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Even if you are planning to switch to [Headless Mode](/documentation/articles/what-is-headless-mode/), we recommend completing a final build before you switch.
</comp.Notice>

## URL configuration

For Eleventy, Hugo, and Jekyll Sites, CloudCannon discovers URLs through a different mechanism when building with Unified Configuration.

Previously, the output URL for a file was read from your SSG at build time. Instead, CloudCannon now determines output URLs using heuristics after building your Site.

Most Sites will be unchanged, however some Sites may fail to auto-detect the correct URLs. We recommend checking that the URLs displayed in CloudCannon are correct.

URLs are used when copying the output path of a collection item, and when opening the Visual Editor for a file. If you experience any issues with these actions, we recommend [configuring explicit URLs for your collections](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/#url).

## Migration conclusion

You have migrated your Site to the Unified Configuration file format!

If you have any questions about this migration guide or need assistance, please contact our friendly [support team](/support/). We're always here to help.
