guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about live configuration and data editing, and the Unified Configuration
  file format. Determine whether migrating your existing Site is right for you.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - articles/introduction-to-syncing.mdx
  - articles/introduction-to-building.mdx
  - articles/activating-flags.mdx
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This Guide is relevant for CloudCannon Sites created before September 2024. Sites created after this date do not need to migrate.
</comp.Notice>

Welcome to the Unified Configuration migration guide! If you want to enable live configuration and data editing or update your existing Site to the Unified Configuration file format, you are in the right place!

Before we start, this guide assumes that you have an existing Site on CloudCannon created before September 2024.

In this guide we'll cover:

* What is live configuration and data editing and how do you enable it for your existing Sites?
* What is Unified Configuration and why would you migrate your existing Site to this file format?
* How do you migrate your Site configuration to the Unified Configuration file format?

You may not need to complete every step in this guide but please carefully review each step to see if it is applicable to your Site's configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  The features discussed in this guide are part of CloudCannon's [Live Configuration Beta](/documentation/articles/beta/). While the Beta is ongoing, you must have your account in the Beta Environment to access these features.
</comp.Notice>

## What is live configuration and data editing?

Before September 2024, CloudCannon relied on a successful build to show you any updates to your configuration and data files in the app UI. This meant you had to wait for a build to see updates to your collections in the *App Navigation*, inputs in your editing interfaces, the appearance of your files, and more.

The live configuration and data editing feature allows you to see your changes live when you update your CloudCannon configuration files and data files — without the need to build your Site.

This means you can:

* Populate inputs with new Collections files before saving the file.
* Update your Input, Structure, and Schema configuration, and see those changes the next time you open a file in an editing interface.
  * (Note: CloudCannon applies a Schema to a file when first opened during an editing session. You will not see live changes from an updated Schema if a file is already open with unsaved changes.)
* See changes quickly when you reconfigure the appearance of your file cards.

Live configuration and data editing provide a better editing experience for your team.

Live configuration and data editing are automatically included for new Sites created with the Unified Configuration file format. For Sites created before September 2024, this feature may not be enabled. We'll cover how to enable this feature for existing Sites in step two of this guide.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  Live configuration editing is unavailable for Sites using a JavaScript CLoudCannon configuration file. Please switch to a YAML (recommended) or JSON format to access this feature.
</comp.Notice>

## What is Unified Configuration?

The Unified Configuration file format simplifies Site setup. Sites created using a CloudCannon configuration file in the Unified Configuration file format require less information from you and use the same configuration options regardless of SSG. The Unified Configuration file format also enables you to manage your content in CloudCannon before your first build.

Unified Configuration also allows you to put your Site in Headless Mode, turning off builds and streamlining *Site Settings*. Headless Mode is ideal for Sites built and hosted externally or dynamic Sites that rely on server-side rendering.

These features mainly benefit new Sites (i.e., without a CloudCannon configuration file) and new CloudCannon customers. Additionally, you can benefit from live configuration and data editing on most existing Sites without migrating to the Unified Configuration file format. So why migrate your existing Sites?

If you have an existing Site on CloudCannon, migrating to Unified Configuration is optional, but there are some scenarios in which migration may benefit you.

### CloudCannon Documentation

The CloudCannon Documentation website prioritizes using the most up-to-date instructions and screenshots. If your Site does not use the Unified Configuration file format, some articles on the CloudCannon Documentation website may not match your experience in the app.

If you decide not to migrate to Unified Configuration and need assistance with your Site, our friendly [support team](/support/) is always available to help.

### Future copies of your Site

The Unified Configuration file format improves your experience when creating new Sites (i.e., not branching from an existing Site). This benefit is not relevant to most existing Sites on CloudCannon, unless you plan to create a new copy of your Site at any point in the future.

Perhaps you want to create a new Site using the file structure of your existing Site, or you maintain website templates for use on CloudCannon. Migrating to Unified Configuration will improve the onboarding experience for your new Site.

### Live configuration editing for Sites with a JavaScript configuration file

CloudCannon supports live configuration editing for Sites with YAML or JSON CloudCannon configuration files. If you want to benefit from this feature on your existing Site, you must switch to a YAML (recommended) or JSON CloudCannon configuration file.

Switch to a YAML (recommended) or JSON CloudCannon configuration file.

non-unified YAML configuration

&nbsp;

migrating to the Unified Configuration file format.

### Moving to Headless Mode

If you want to add dynamic elements to your Site, or decide to host it externally while still using CloudCannon as your primary CMS, you must enable Headless Mode. Headless Mode is only available for Sites using Unified Configuration.

### Configuration maintenance

**Migrating to Unified Configuration will make it easier to maintain your build configuration.**

Commit message:

Add CC features para
Co-authored-by: George Phillips <george@cloudcannon.com>

guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about live configuration and data editing, and the Unified Configuration
  file format. Determine whether migrating your existing Site is right for you.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - articles/introduction-to-syncing.mdx
  - articles/introduction-to-building.mdx
  - articles/activating-flags.mdx
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This Guide is relevant for CloudCannon Sites created before September 2024. Sites created after this date do not need to migrate.
</comp.Notice>

Welcome to the Unified Configuration migration guide! If you want to enable live configuration and data editing or update your existing Site to the Unified Configuration file format, you are in the right place!

Before we start, this guide assumes that you have an existing Site on CloudCannon created before September 2024.

In this guide we'll cover:

* What is live configuration and data editing and how do you enable it for your existing Sites?
* What is Unified Configuration and why would you migrate your existing Site to this file format?
* How do you migrate your Site configuration to the Unified Configuration file format?

You may not need to complete every step in this guide but please carefully review each step to see if it is applicable to your Site's configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  The features discussed in this guide are part of CloudCannon's [Live Configuration Beta](/documentation/articles/beta/). While the Beta is ongoing, you must have your account in the Beta Environment to access these features.
</comp.Notice>

## What is live configuration and data editing?

Before September 2024, CloudCannon relied on a successful build to show you any updates to your configuration and data files in the app UI. This meant you had to wait for a build to see updates to your collections in the *App Navigation*, inputs in your editing interfaces, the appearance of your files, and more.

The live configuration and data editing feature allows you to see your changes live when you update your CloudCannon configuration files and data files — without the need to build your Site.

This means you can:

* Populate inputs with new Collections files before saving the file.
* Update your Input, Structure, and Schema configuration, and see those changes the next time you open a file in an editing interface.
  * (Note: CloudCannon applies a Schema to a file when first opened during an editing session. You will not see live changes from an updated Schema if a file is already open with unsaved changes.)
* See changes quickly when you reconfigure the appearance of your file cards.

Live configuration and data editing provide a better editing experience for your team.

Live configuration and data editing are automatically included for new Sites created with the Unified Configuration file format. For Sites created before September 2024, this feature may not be enabled. We'll cover how to enable this feature for existing Sites in step two of this guide.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  Live configuration editing is unavailable for Sites using a JavaScript CLoudCannon configuration file. Please switch to a YAML (recommended) or JSON format to access this feature.
</comp.Notice>

## What is Unified Configuration?

The Unified Configuration file format simplifies Site setup. Sites created using a CloudCannon configuration file in the Unified Configuration file format require less information from you and use the same configuration options regardless of SSG. The Unified Configuration file format also enables you to manage your content in CloudCannon before your first build.

Unified Configuration also allows you to put your Site in Headless Mode, turning off builds and streamlining *Site Settings*. Headless Mode is ideal for Sites built and hosted externally or dynamic Sites that rely on server-side rendering.

These features mainly benefit new Sites (i.e., without a CloudCannon configuration file) and new CloudCannon customers. Additionally, you can benefit from live configuration and data editing on most existing Sites without migrating to the Unified Configuration file format. So why migrate your existing Sites?

If you have an existing Site on CloudCannon, migrating to Unified Configuration is optional, but there are some scenarios in which migration may benefit you.

### CloudCannon Documentation

The CloudCannon Documentation website prioritizes using the most up-to-date instructions and screenshots. If your Site does not use the Unified Configuration file format, some articles on the CloudCannon Documentation website may not match your experience in the app.

If you decide not to migrate to Unified Configuration and need assistance with your Site, our friendly [support team](/support/) is always available to help.

### Future copies of your Site

The Unified Configuration file format improves your experience when creating new Sites (i.e., not branching from an existing Site). This benefit is not relevant to most existing Sites on CloudCannon, unless you plan to create a new copy of your Site at any point in the future.

Perhaps you want to create a new Site using the file structure of your existing Site, or you maintain website templates for use on CloudCannon. Migrating to Unified Configuration will improve the onboarding experience for your new Site.

### Live configuration editing for Sites with a JavaScript configuration file

CloudCannon supports live configuration editing for Sites with YAML or JSON CloudCannon configuration files. If you want to benefit from this feature on your existing Site, you must switch to a YAML (recommended) or JSON CloudCannon configuration file.

Switching to a YAML or JSON CloudCannon configuration file is the first step of our Unified Configuration migration guide — it's up to you if you want to complete all the steps.

### Moving to Headless Mode

If you want to add dynamic elements to your Site, or decide to host it externally while still using CloudCannon as your primary CMS, you must enable Headless Mode. Headless Mode is only available for Sites using Unified Configuration.

### Configuration maintenance

CloudCannon will suggest build configuration options for Sites using Unified Configuration, such as potential command line options or environment variable. These suggestions are based on your SSG choice and the content of your files and make it easier to maintain your build configuration.

### Future CloudCannon features

Going forward, CloudCannon will treat Sites that use the Unified Configuration file format as the default. Although we don't have any planned at the moment, future CloudCannon features may require your Site to use the Unified Configuration file format.
