guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/live-configuration-and-data-editing.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Live Configuration and Data Editing
nav_title: Live Configuration and Data Editing
order: 2
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable live configuration and data editing for existing Sites on
  CloudCannon.
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
You can enable live configuration and data editing on your existing Sites without completing a full migration to Unified Configuration.

To enable live configuration and data editing:

1. Navigate to the *Flags* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Check the *Step 1: Enable live config and data reloading* flag under *Upgrade to Unified Configuration*.
3. Click the *Update* button.

CloudCannon will now load changes to your data and configuration files, including your Inputs, Structures, and Schemas, without the need to save and build your Site.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/flags-and-legacy/2024-09/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Flags-Unified-Configuration.png" alt="A screenshot of the Flags page shows a checkbox named Use Unified Configuration under the Unified Configuration heading." title="The Flags page" type="screenshot"/>

Commit message:

Add language to the live config / data page about possible issues

guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/live-configuration-and-data-editing.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dafe4618-7097-42a8-a8b0-f84e4be81131
_created_at: 2024-08-28T16:21:57+12:00
title: Live Configuration and Data Editing
nav_title: Live Configuration and Data Editing
order: 2
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable live configuration and data editing for existing Sites on
  CloudCannon.
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
You can enable live configuration and data editing on your existing Sites without completing a full migration to Unified Configuration.

To enable live configuration and data editing:

1. Navigate to the *Flags* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Check the *Step 1: Enable live config and data reloading* flag under *Upgrade to Unified Configuration*.
3. Click the *Update* button.

CloudCannon will now load changes to your data and configuration files, including your Inputs, Structures, and Schemas, without the need to save and build your Site.

Live configuration and data editing is resolved on-demand in the CloudCannon interface, and will be merged with the data from your latest successful build. For this reason, you might see issues if:

- You modify your CloudCannon configuration file during your build.
- You modify the front matter of your content files during your build.
- Your SSG generates or modifies the data of your files during your build.

In these cases, your configuration or data being applied on-demand may override the modified values from your last successful build. This may impact:

- How cards are displayed when browsing your collection interfaces.
- The labels shown and values saved when using a select input connected to a collection or data source.
- Any CloudCannon configuration that may have been modified in a way that could not be merged.

We don't expect this to affect many existing Sites, but we have made this flag opt-in out of an abundance of caution.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/flags-and-legacy/2024-09/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Flags-Unified-Configuration.png" alt="A screenshot of the Flags page shows a checkbox named Use Unified Configuration under the Unified Configuration heading." title="The Flags page" type="screenshot"/>
