guides/hugo-modules/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b42c9e99-49f4-4129-bfc4-0e6eaff956ed
_created_at: 2023-06-07T00:00:00Z
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Learn the different ways that CloudCannon can support sites that depend on Hugo Modules
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
[Hugo modules](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/) allow you to use themes and components from other repositories in your site.
In some cases, you will need to customize your CloudCannon setup to enable or improve the way these modules interact with your site.

For sites with Hugo Modules that are public GitHub repositories, no action will be required for your site to build successfully.
However, if you own the repository in question, emulating Hugo Modules using CloudCannon's Site Mounting will provide some benefits
by triggering builds on your website when your module changes.

For sites with Hugo Modules in private GitHub repositories, one of the two approaches in this guide will be required.

If your module setup is simple, representing a theme module of layouts of components, emulating Hugo Modules using CloudCannon's Site Mounting
is a good option. This leverages CloudCannon's existing authenticated connection with your git provider, and provides automatic builds
for your site when your module repository is changed.

If your setup is more complicated, for example your module has its own modules, setting up a matching structure using Site Mounting presents is less trivial.
In this case, we recommend using GitHub's access tokens to provide your site with the required permissions for downloading your modules.

Commit message:

updated copy for Hugo Modules guides

guides/hugo-modules/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b42c9e99-49f4-4129-bfc4-0e6eaff956ed
_created_at: 2023-06-07T00:00:00Z
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn how to connect Hugo Modules to your CloudCannon site.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the [Hugo Modules](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/) guide. If you want to use themes and components from other repositories on your site, you are in the right place! To configure CloudCannon so that your Hugo modules install correctly, you must customize how CloudCannon loads your modules into your build.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Hugo site on CloudCannon and are using GitHub as your module repository.

Hugo Modules can use public or private repositories. In the case of a public repository, a successful build won't require any configuration in CloudCannon — however, you might want to improve your experience by using CloudCannon's Site Mounting feature. With Site Mounting, a new build of your site is triggered every time the Hugo Module is updated.

For a private repository, you must give CloudCannon permission to access the repository at build time. There are two approaches for connecting a private repository. If you have a simple module setup, such as a theme module containing layouts and components, you can emulate Hugo Modules using Site Mounting instead. We recommend this approach for simple setups. With Site Mounting, your sites can benefit from CloudCannon's authenticated connection with your git provider, and you can trigger a build of your site every time the Hugo module is updated.

For more complex setups, such as if your module has nested modules, replicating this with Site Mounting can become more difficult. In this case, we recommend using a GitHub access token to give your build permission to download your modules.

This guide will cover how to set up your site using Site Mounting in CloudCannon or a GitHub access token.
