guides/rosey-migration-guide/using-rosey-on-cloudcannon.mdx, before:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: e650e671-14de-4392-80b4-03c90b8f2d41
_created_at: '2023-05-26 00:32:03 +0000'
title: Using Rosey on CloudCannon
nav_title: Using Rosey on CloudCannon
order: 3
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Build a translated site with Rosey on CloudCannon
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links:
---

Now that you can build your translated site with Rosey locally, we want to get the same build process working on CloudCannon. We'll add a postbuild step using [build hooks](/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/).

Recall that using Rosey in our postbuild can cause issues for the Visual Editor. To get around this, we'll only run Rosey on our production site. This works because we don't want to directly edit the production site anyway, and we may not need to see all the translated content on the staging site where we're editing. If you do need to preview translations on your site before they go live, you can create another site connected to the `staging` branch which also runs the postbuild!

Add a `.cloudcannon/postbuild` script to run Rosey after every build on CloudCannon. We'll use an environment variable to tell our script whether to run Rosey or not.

<comp.CodeBlock language="sh" source=".cloudcannon/postbuild"> 
```
if [[ $TRANSLATE == "true" ]];
then
  echo "Installing Rosey"
  npm install

  echo "Translating site with Rosey"
  # There's a little bit of shuffling around here to ensure the translated site ends up where CloudCannon picks up your site
  mv ./_site ./_untranslated_site                  
  npx rosey build --source _untranslated_site --dest _site
fi
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

On our production site, we'll add an environment variable `TRANSLATE` with the value `true`. You can do this in the **Command Line Options** menu in the *Configuration* section of your site settings.
    
Your site should be now translated on CloudCannon! 🎉 If you were previously using CloudCannon i18n, you can switch it off in your build settings.

Commit message:

Advise setting Rosey version explicitly

guides/rosey-migration-guide/using-rosey-on-cloudcannon.mdx, after:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: e650e671-14de-4392-80b4-03c90b8f2d41
_created_at: '2023-05-26 00:32:03 +0000'
title: Using Rosey on CloudCannon
nav_title: Using Rosey on CloudCannon
order: 3
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Build a translated site with Rosey on CloudCannon
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links:
---

Now that you can build your translated site with Rosey locally, we want to get the same build process working on CloudCannon. We'll add a postbuild step using [build hooks](/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/).

Recall that using Rosey in our postbuild can cause issues for the Visual Editor. To get around this, we'll only run Rosey on our production site. This works because we don't want to directly edit the production site anyway, and we may not need to see all the translated content on the staging site where we're editing. If you do need to preview translations on your site before they go live, you can create another site connected to the `staging` branch which also runs the postbuild!

Add a `.cloudcannon/postbuild` script to run Rosey after every build on CloudCannon. We'll use an environment variable to tell our script whether to run Rosey or not.

<comp.CodeBlock language="sh" source=".cloudcannon/postbuild"> 
```
if [[ $TRANSLATE == "true" ]];
then
  echo "Installing Rosey"
  npm install

  echo "Translating site with Rosey"
  # There's a little bit of shuffling around here to ensure the translated site ends up where CloudCannon picks up your site
  mv ./_site ./_untranslated_site                  
  npx rosey@latest build --source _untranslated_site --dest _site
fi
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

It's best to explicitly specify which version of Rosey you want to run, to ensure your CloudCannon build matches what your local development environment. Consider adding `rosey` as a dependency in your package.json.

On our production site, we'll add an environment variable `TRANSLATE` with the value `true`. You can do this in the **Command Line Options** menu in the *Configuration* section of your site settings.
    
Your site should be now translated on CloudCannon! 🎉 If you were previously using CloudCannon i18n, you can switch it off in your build settings.
