guides/universal-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a738dbfb-fe90-4af1-92b7-b43104fd947b
_created_at: 2023-10-05T10:30:23+13:00
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Universal.png
description: >-
  Configure the CloudCannon file editors to give your content team the best
  experience.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
<comp.StarterGuideDeflector/>

<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Site_Paragraph">
    CloudCannon will try to auto-detect which static site generator your repository is using. If you are using a custom SSG, or one that CloudCannon does not support, the dropdown menu will display *Custom*.

    Enter the necessary build options so your site matches your local build environment. If you have a custom source directory or require environment variables for parts of your build, enter them here.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Hugo.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings" type="screenshot"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Install Command: Configure the command to install dependencies before the build. By default, this runs `npm install`. This is run as a line of bash and can be anything you want. A common change here is to use `yarn install` instead, or the install command for your custom SSG's toolchain.
    * Build Command: Configure the command to build your site. By default, this runs `npm run build`.
    * Output Path: Configure the path to the output folder you are building into. CloudCannon needs to know which folder to treat as the static output of your site. By default, CloudCannon will look for a `public` directory.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Reader

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/reader` after your SSG. 

    CloudCannon Reader is the tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    If you want to look under the hood or customize your config further, Reader is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/reader">CloudCannon/reader</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>

Commit message:

update description for "Build your site"

guides/universal-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a738dbfb-fe90-4af1-92b7-b43104fd947b
_created_at: 2023-10-05T10:30:23+13:00
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Universal.png
description: >-
  Learn how to build your Site to use previews, the testing domain, and the Visual Editor.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
<comp.StarterGuideDeflector/>

<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Site_Paragraph">
    CloudCannon will try to auto-detect which static site generator your repository is using. If you are using a custom SSG, or one that CloudCannon does not support, the dropdown menu will display *Custom*.

    Enter the necessary build options so your site matches your local build environment. If you have a custom source directory or require environment variables for parts of your build, enter them here.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Hugo.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings" type="screenshot"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Install Command: Configure the command to install dependencies before the build. By default, this runs `npm install`. This is run as a line of bash and can be anything you want. A common change here is to use `yarn install` instead, or the install command for your custom SSG's toolchain.
    * Build Command: Configure the command to build your site. By default, this runs `npm run build`.
    * Output Path: Configure the path to the output folder you are building into. CloudCannon needs to know which folder to treat as the static output of your site. By default, CloudCannon will look for a `public` directory.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Reader

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/reader` after your SSG. 

    CloudCannon Reader is the tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    If you want to look under the hood or customize your config further, Reader is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/reader">CloudCannon/reader</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>
