guides/universal-starter-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0ebc7c8e-9062-43c3-9b2c-69a32f86e120
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Universal.png
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
<comp.StarterGuideDeflector />

Welcome to the Universal CloudCannon starter guide! If you want to get your Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, but you aren't using one of our officially supported SSGs, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have any site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, and configure it for the best CloudCannon experience.

Commit message:

Move intro content and rename Introduction step

guides/universal-starter-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0ebc7c8e-9062-43c3-9b2c-69a32f86e120
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Getting started with CloudCannon
nav_title: Getting started with CloudCannon
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Universal.png
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
<comp.StarterGuideDeflector/>

Welcome to the Universal CloudCannon starter guide! If you want to get your Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, but you aren't using one of our officially supported SSGs, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have any site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, and configure it for the best CloudCannon experience.

## What is CloudCannon?

CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about Git, Markdown, or HTML.

If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
