guides/eleventy-starter-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 11b0f65e-ee3a-40a9-ba2f-2660c3e2063d
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Eleventy.png
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon Eleventy CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Eleventy starter guide! If you want to get your Eleventy Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Eleventy site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Eleventy site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

Eleventy and CloudCannon are a great match, as they organize content the same way. You can use CloudCannon’s four editing interfaces out-of-the-box: the Visual, Content, and Data Editors, as well as the Source Editor.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to create custom components, and configure Eleventy for the best CloudCannon experience.

Commit message:

Move intro content and rename Introduction step

guides/eleventy-starter-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 11b0f65e-ee3a-40a9-ba2f-2660c3e2063d
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Getting started with CloudCannon
nav_title: Getting started with CloudCannon
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Eleventy.png
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon Eleventy CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Eleventy starter guide! If you want to get your Eleventy Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Eleventy site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Eleventy site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

Eleventy and CloudCannon are a great match, as they organize content the same way. You can use CloudCannon’s four editing interfaces out-of-the-box: the Visual, Content, and Data Editors, as well as the Source Editor.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to create custom components, and configure Eleventy for the best CloudCannon experience.

## What is CloudCannon?

CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your Eleventy Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about Eleventy, Git, Markdown, or HTML.

If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
