guides/hugo-multilingual/translation-by-content-directory.mdx, before:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: 3d16fb1d-b83d-476b-9ff9-b702ccc200aa
_created_at: 2023-06-07T00:00:00Z
title: Translation by content directory
nav_title: Translation by content directory
published: true
order: 3
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Managing multilingual Hugo sites translated by content directory/folder.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
This approach separates all languages, which can make it easier to find specific files. More configuration entries are required, however, resulting in a longer site navigation.

Hugo calls this [Translation by content directory](https://gohugo.io/content-management/multilingual/#translation-by-content-directory). Your files will be placed inside a top-level content folder for each language (e.g. `content/es/posts/my-post.md`).

The best practice here is to **define a collection per language and folder of related files** (e.g. Pages EN, Pages ES, Pages FR, Posts EN, Posts ES, Posts FR).

Here's an example with Pages and Posts:

<comp.Tree>
```
content/
>> en/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
>> es/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
>> fr/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
```
</comp.Tree>

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages_en:
    name: Pages EN
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/en
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  pages_es:
    name: Pages ES
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/es
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  pages_fr:
    name: Pages FR
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/en
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  posts_en:
    name: Posts EN
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/en/blog
  posts_es:
    name: Posts ES
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/es/blog
  posts_fr:
    name: Posts FR
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/fr/blog
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  This assigns all branch index files within the `path` to this collection. The assigned collection changes how the `filter`
   is handled, as well as what input configuration and schemas are applied.
  
  In this case, the `content/*/blog/_index.md` are part of this collection, rather than the Posts collection of that language.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  When you browse a collection in CloudCannon, all files within that folder will be shown by default. 
  Applying the `strict` filter to a collection instead limits the UI to show only the files that exactly match that collection.

  In this case, it prevents files from the `posts_*` collections in the `content/*/blog/` subdirectories
  from appearing when browsing the `pages` collection for that language.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.CodeBlock>

Commit message:

Pad out the description of `parse_branch_index`

guides/hugo-multilingual/translation-by-content-directory.mdx, after:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: 3d16fb1d-b83d-476b-9ff9-b702ccc200aa
_created_at: 2023-06-07T00:00:00Z
title: Translation by content directory
nav_title: Translation by content directory
published: true
order: 3
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Managing multilingual Hugo sites translated by content directory/folder.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
This approach separates all languages, which can make it easier to find specific files. More configuration entries are required, however, resulting in a longer site navigation.

Hugo calls this [Translation by content directory](https://gohugo.io/content-management/multilingual/#translation-by-content-directory). Your files will be placed inside a top-level content folder for each language (e.g. `content/es/posts/my-post.md`).

The best practice here is to **define a collection per language and folder of related files** (e.g. Pages EN, Pages ES, Pages FR, Posts EN, Posts ES, Posts FR).

Here's an example with Pages and Posts:

<comp.Tree>
```
content/
>> en/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
>> es/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
>> fr/
   >> about.md
   >> blog/
      >> first-post.md
```
</comp.Tree>

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages_en:
    name: Pages EN
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/en
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  pages_es:
    name: Pages ES
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/es
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  pages_fr:
    name: Pages FR
    icon: wysiwyg
    path: content/en
    parse_branch_index: true #1
    filter: strict #2
  posts_en:
    name: Posts EN
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/en/blog
  posts_es:
    name: Posts ES
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/es/blog
  posts_fr:
    name: Posts FR
    icon: event_available
    paths: content/fr/blog
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `parse_branch_index` option is specific to Hugo sites on CloudCannon, and affects what collection `_index.*` files get assigned to.
  By default these files do not get assigned to the closest collection, as they usually represent the landing pages of your site.
  As such, they will be assigned to the global `pages` collection unless otherwise configured.

  If a collection is tagged as `parse_branch_index: true`, any `_index.*` files in the collection path (and subdirectories) will be assigned
  to it.
  
  In this case, we want the `content/*/blog/_index.md` files to be in the `pages_*` collection for their language,
  rather than in the global `pages` collection, or the inner `posts_*` collection.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  When you browse a collection in CloudCannon, all files within that folder will be shown by default. 
  Applying the `strict` filter to a collection instead limits the UI to show only the files that exactly match that collection.

  In this case, it prevents files from the `posts_*` collections in the `content/*/blog/` subdirectories
  from appearing when browsing the `pages` collection for that language.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.CodeBlock>
