guides/headless-starter-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 67ddbb92-86cf-4e1e-abd6-61cf259b42a7
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image:
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon Hugo CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Hugo starter guide! If you want to get your Hugo Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Hugo site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Hugo site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

Hugo and CloudCannon are a great match, as they organize content the same way. You can use CloudCannon’s four editing interfaces out-of-the-box: the Visual, Content, and Data Editors, as well as the Source Editor.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to use Hugo shortcodes, and configure Hugo for the best CloudCannon experience.

Commit message:

Move intro content and rename Introduction step

guides/headless-starter-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 67ddbb92-86cf-4e1e-abd6-61cf259b42a7
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Getting started with CloudCannon
nav_title: Getting started with CloudCannon
order: 1
published: true
image:
description: Learn how to get your website set up on the CloudCannon Hugo CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Hugo starter guide! If you want to get your Hugo Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Hugo site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Hugo site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

Hugo and CloudCannon are a great match, as they organize content the same way. You can use CloudCannon’s four editing interfaces out-of-the-box: the Visual, Content, and Data Editors, as well as the Source Editor.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to use Hugo shortcodes, and configure Hugo for the best CloudCannon experience.

## What is CloudCannon?

CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily maintain your Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about Git, Markdown, or HTML.

You don't have to build your Site on CloudCannon to use it as your CMS. This is great for Dynamic or externally hosted Sites! However, if you want to use the [Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/the-visual-editor/), the [Test Domain](/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/), or see preview screenshots in your [Collection](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/) browser, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon without Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/universal-starter-guide/).
