guides/staging-workflow-guide/connecting-cloudcannon-and-git.mdx, before:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: "e5410e32-5584-42dc-80c7-5e096d9a6ae6"
_created_at: "2023-05-26 00:32:03 +0000"
title: "Connecting CloudCannon and Git"
nav_title: "Connect your Git repo to CloudCannon"
order: 2
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: "Learn about the advantages of a staging-production workflow and how to set it up in CloudCannon."
tags: []
related_articles: ['introduction-to-syncing']
related_links:
  - name: Connecting your first site
    url: /documentation/guides/getting-started/connecting-your-first-site/
---

[Also see here](/documentation/guides/getting-started/connecting-your-first-site/)
[Also also see here](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-syncing)

If already have a CloudCannon site connected to Git that you want to use as your user-facing site, you can skip ahead to the next step.

## Create a production branch

If you haven't already, create a branch and push it to your Git provider. You can call this whatever you want. We've called it "production" to keep things clear for this guide. 

You can see [a list of supported Git providers here](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-syncing/#supported-git-providers).

<comp.CodeBlock language="sh" >
```
git checkout -b production
git push -u origin production
```
</comp.CodeBlock>


Now we'll connect our "production" Git branch to a site on CloudCannon.

## Sync Git with CloudCannon

Navigate to *Sites* in the sidebar. Click the **Add new site** button, and choose **Build with your own files** in the menu that appears.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/site-create.png" alt="When adding a new site, you can edit with a template or build with your own files." type="screenshot" />

Choose your Git provider in the **File source** dropdown, and click the **Authenticate** button to begin connecting your Git provider to CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/site-create-from-git.png" alt={null} type="screenshot" />

Once you've authenticated with Git, add a name for the site and click **Sync Files**. 

This will pull your files from Git. You'll then be asked for the build settings for your site. [See more information about build settings](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-building/) if you are not yet familiar with these options.

Commit message:

Some small tweaks to the staging guide

guides/staging-workflow-guide/connecting-cloudcannon-and-git.mdx, after:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: "e5410e32-5584-42dc-80c7-5e096d9a6ae6"
_created_at: "2023-05-26 00:32:03 +0000"
title: "Connecting CloudCannon and Git"
nav_title: "Connect your Git repo to CloudCannon"
order: 2
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: "Connect your Git repository to CloudCannon."
tags: []
related_articles: ['introduction-to-syncing']
related_links:
  - name: Connecting your first site
    url: /documentation/guides/getting-started/connecting-your-first-site/
---
If already have a CloudCannon site connected to Git that you want to use as your user-facing site, you can skip ahead to the next step.

## Create a production branch

If you haven't already, create a branch and push it to your Git provider. The name of this branch can be anything, but we've called it "production" to keep things clear. 

<comp.CodeBlock language="sh" >
```
git checkout -b production
git push -u origin production
```
</comp.CodeBlock>


Now we'll connect our "production" Git branch to a site on CloudCannon.

## Sync Git with CloudCannon

Navigate to *Sites* in the sidebar. Click the **Add new site** button, and choose **Build with your own files** in the menu that appears.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/site-create.png" alt="When adding a new site, you can edit with a template or build with your own files." type="screenshot" />

Choose your Git provider in the **File source** dropdown, and click the **Authenticate** button to begin connecting your Git provider to CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/site-create-from-git.png" alt={null} type="screenshot" />

Once you've authenticated with Git, add a name for the site and click **Sync Files**. 

This will pull your files from Git. You'll then be asked for the build settings for your site. [See more information about build settings](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-building/) if you are not yet familiar with these options.
