guides/bookshop-astro-guide/configuring-live-editing.mdx, before:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: a7c95a87-a3b4-44d3-b7fe-87cbb785c037
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Configuring live editing
nav_title: Configuring live editing
order: 5
published: true
image: /documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/bookshop-astro-og.png
description: Connecting Bookshop to CloudCannon's live editing
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
---
Bookshop can render changes to your components live in CloudCannon, allowing you to build rich visual editing experiences.

## Installing Bookshop's development dependencies

To power the live editing experience, Bookshop requires a few extra packages to be installed. Unlike the previous plugin we installed, these dependencies have no impact on your production site: they only provide Bookshop tooling locally on your machine and within the CloudCannon Visual Editor.

<comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source="Command line">
```
         #1
npm i -D --save-exact @bookshop/generate @bookshop/browser @bookshop/eleventy-engine
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  Bookshop releases all packages on every release, so the version numbers should
  always stay exactly the same. Using `--save-exact` here means that npm won't use a newer version
  than the one specified.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## Running the Bookshop generate command

Bookshop provides a command to run after your static site build. This command automatically discovers your component library and your site files, and connects CloudCannon's live editing APIs to the Bookshop components on your site.

Additionally, when we cover the structured data features of Bookshop, this command will do the work of creating your CloudCannon Structures for you.

To run this command, add the following to a [CloudCannon postbuild script](https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/) at the root of your repository:

<comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source=".cloudcannon/postbuild">
```
npx @bookshop/generate
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

With that in place, any Bookshop components that use data from the front matter of a page should render changes live in the Visual Editor.

Additionally, you should notice CloudCannon's Data Bindings have been added around your components, allowing you to click directly on the page and open an editing panel.

As an example, if we have a component that pulls from front matter:

<comp.CodeBlock language="liquid" source="about.html">
```
---
title: About
layout: base.liquid
permalink: /about/
hero_component:
  title: On a mission to change email marketing
  description: We're here to breathe new air into email marketing and help grow your business.
  button:
    text: "Try This Free"
    link: "/signup"
---

{% bookshop "about/hero" bind: hero_component %}

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

When viewed in the Visual Editor, we will be able to interact with the element directly on the page and open up an editing panel:

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/sendit-data-binding.png" alt="An example page matching the aforementioned code block, showing a data panel open in CloudCannon's visual editor after interacting directly with a component."/>

Commit message:

First cut of the astro bookshop starter guide

guides/bookshop-astro-guide/configuring-live-editing.mdx, after:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: a7c95a87-a3b4-44d3-b7fe-87cbb785c037
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Configuring live editing
nav_title: Configuring live editing
order: 5
published: true
image: /documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/bookshop-astro-og.png
description: Connecting Bookshop to CloudCannon's live editing
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
---
Bookshop can render changes to your components live in CloudCannon, allowing you to build rich visual editing experiences.

## Installing Bookshop's development dependencies

To power the live editing experience, Bookshop requires a few extra packages to be installed. Unlike the previous plugin we installed, these dependencies have no impact on your production site: they only provide Bookshop tooling locally on your machine and within the CloudCannon Visual Editor.

<comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source="Command line">
```
         #1
npm i -D --save-exact @bookshop/generate @bookshop/browser @bookshop/astro-engine
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  Bookshop releases all packages on every release, so the version numbers should
  always stay exactly the same. Using `--save-exact` here means that npm won't use a newer version
  than the one specified.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## Running the Bookshop generate command

Bookshop provides a command to run after your static site build. This command automatically discovers your component library and your site files, and connects CloudCannon's live editing APIs to the Bookshop components on your site.

Additionally, when we cover the structured data features of Bookshop, this command will do the work of creating your CloudCannon Structures for you.

To run this command, add the following to a [CloudCannon postbuild script](https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/) at the root of your repository:

<comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source=".cloudcannon/postbuild">
```
npx @bookshop/generate
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

With that in place, any Bookshop components that use data from the front matter of a page should render changes live in the Visual Editor.

Additionally, you should notice CloudCannon's Data Bindings have been added around your components, allowing you to click directly on the page and open an editing panel.

As an example, if we have a markdown page with front matter:
<comp.CodeBlock language="markdown" source="src/pages/about.md">
```
---
title: About
layout: ../layouts/base.astro
hero_component:
  title: On a mission to change email marketing
  description: We're here to breathe new air into email marketing and help grow your business.
  button:
    text: "Try This Free"
    link: "/signup"
---
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

And a layout which use that frontmatter to render a component:
<comp.CodeBlock language="astro" source="src/layouts/base.astro">
```
---
import AboutHero from '../components/about/hero.astro'

const { frontmatter } = Astro.props;
---

<AboutHero bookshop:live {...frontmatter.hero_component}>
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

When viewed in the Visual Editor, we will be able to interact with the element directly on the page and open up an editing panel:

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/sendit-data-binding.png" alt="An example page matching the aforementioned code block, showing a data panel open in CloudCannon's visual editor after interacting directly with a component."/>
