guides/bookshop-astro-guide/using-structures.mdx, before:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: 6ee4ba70-82e3-4d42-b9ab-b138106beb8c
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Using Structures
nav_title: Using Structures
order: 6
published: true
image: /documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/bookshop-astro-og.png
description: Create structured, reusable data from your components
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
---
So far we have introduced how to use components on a site, and how to update them live when the front matter of a page changes.

The next aspect to tackle is how to add and remove components to a page, which is where CloudCannon Structures come into the picture.

## What are Structures?

Structures are CloudCannon's answer to structured data on static sites. You can read more about structures in [Defining what adds to an array](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/#structures) and the [Structures reference](/documentation/articles/array-structures-reference/), but the main thing to know is that for Bookshop, Structures define the set of components that can be added to a specific key in CloudCannon.

## The Bookshop component file

Earlier, when we ran the `@bookshop/init` command, a sample component was created for us. Alongside the `sample.eleventy.liquid` templating file, a `sample.bookshop.yml` file was initialized.

<comp.Tree>
```
_component-library/
>> components/
   >> sample/
      >> sample.eleventy.liquid
      >> sample.bookshop.yml #*
```
</comp.Tree>

Similar to the live editing setup, this file isn't required when building your site. Instead, it's picked up by the `@bookshop/generate` command to configure your component in CloudCannon.

Here's a bare-bones file to illustrate the main keys:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec: #1
  structures:
    - content_blocks
  label: My Component

blueprint: #2
  text: "Hello World!"

preview: #3

_inputs: #4
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `spec` section names this component, and tells CloudCannon where this component can be placed on your site.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="2">
  The `blueprint` section defines the data your component needs, and provides the default values when a new component is created.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `preview` section is used in the Bookshop component browser, and doesn't affect visual editing. We can ignore this key for now.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="4">
  The `_inputs` section is passed through as [CloudCannon's input configuration](/documentation/articles/how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor/),
  allowing you to customize the fields specified in the `blueprint`.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

To get things started, we'll focus on the required `spec` and `blueprint` sections.

## The component spec

The component `spec` controls everything about how a component should be displayed in the CMS, and where it can be added to a page. Let's walk through a more fleshed out `spec` section:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec:
  structures: #1
    - content_blocks
  label: My Component #2
  description: A very simple component #3
  icon: nature_people #4
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `structures` key tells CloudCannon where this component can be added. In this example,
  we are adding this component to the set of `content_blocks` structures.
  In practice this means that if a `content_blocks` key exists anywhere on your site,
  for example in the front matter of a page, CloudCannon will give editors the option to add
  the `sample` component to that array or object.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="2">
  The `label` key is used as the main title of the component when selecting new components,
  and browsing the existing components on a page.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `description` key can help provide context when selecting a new component in CloudCannon.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="4">
  The `icon` key is ahown alongside existing components in CloudCannon, and when selecting new components.
  This should be the attribute name of any [Material Icon](https://fonts.google.com/icons).
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## The component blueprint

The component `blueprint` is used to generate the CloudCannon Structure for your component. This object will be used as the initial data when the component is added to a page, and represents all of the editable data that your component takes.

If our `sample` component contained the following blueprint:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
blueprint:
  text: "Hello World!"
  color: "#034AD8"
  image:
    image_url: "/image.png"
    image_alt: "My alternate text"
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

Then creating a new `sample` component in CloudCannon would present us with the following data editor:

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/new-sample-component.png" alt="A data editor panel open in CloudCannon showing the initialized state of a new Sample component when added to the page" type="ui-snippet"/>

Component blueprints contain some other powerful features for helping create your Structures. We'll see those soon in the [Nesting components](/documentation/guides/bookshop-eleventy-guide/nesting-components/) page of this guide.

## Generating and using Structures

The `npx @bookshop/generate` command that we set up when [configuring live editing](/documentation/guides/bookshop-eleventy-guide/configuring-live-editing/) will automatically create Structures from your Bookshop components and make them available to CloudCannon. This process happens as part of your site build step on CloudCannon.

The Structures that your component is assigned to determines where it can be added in CloudCannon. For a `sample` component tagged as:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec:
  structures:
    - content_blocks
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

With the page:

<comp.CodeBlock language="markdown" source="pages/index.md">
```
---
content_blocks:
---
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

CloudCannon will treat `content_blocks` as an array, and allow editors to add the `sample` component to it. Structures can also be accessed in CloudCannon using input configuration; if you want to use a different key, you can configure:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
_inputs:
  page_components:
    type: array #1
    options:
      structures: _structures.content_blocks
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  Here you may also specify `type: object`, which will function similar to an array with a maximum length of one.
  As an object, a single component from the set of Structures can be added or removed.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## Supported File Formats

In the examples above, we have been writing the Bookshop configuration files using YAML. This is the recommended format, but you can also choose another if you prefer.

Bookshop supports reading component files written in `yaml`, `toml`, `json`, and `js`.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Can't decide? You can always run `npx @bookshop/up --format <format>`
  to automatically convert all of your files if you change your mind.
</comp.Notice>

Commit message:

First cut of the astro bookshop starter guide

guides/bookshop-astro-guide/using-structures.mdx, after:

---
_schema: guide-item
_uuid: 6ee4ba70-82e3-4d42-b9ab-b138106beb8c
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Using Structures
nav_title: Using Structures
order: 6
published: true
image: /documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/bookshop-astro-og.png
description: Create structured, reusable data from your components
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links: []
---
So far we have introduced how to use components on a site, and how to update them live when the front matter of a page changes.

The next aspect to tackle is how to add and remove components to a page, which is where CloudCannon Structures come into the picture.

## What are Structures?

Structures are CloudCannon's answer to structured data on static sites. You can read more about structures in [Defining what adds to an array](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/#structures) and the [Structures reference](/documentation/articles/array-structures-reference/), but the main thing to know is that for Bookshop, Structures define the set of components that can be added to a specific key in CloudCannon.

## The Bookshop component file

To get started with CloudCannon structures we first need to add Bookshop data files for our components.
The Bookshop data file for a component is created next to that component and has the same name. If you're
following along with the guide you can create an empty `sample.bookshop.yml` next to our sample component.

Afterwards, your file structure should look like this:

<comp.Tree>
```
src/
>> components/
   >> sample/
      >> sample.astro
      >> sample.bookshop.yml #*
```
</comp.Tree>

Similar to the live editing setup, this file isn't required when building your site. Instead, it's picked up by the `@bookshop/generate` command to configure your component in CloudCannon.

Here's a bare-bones file to illustrate the main keys:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec: #1
  structures:
    - content_blocks
  label: My Component

blueprint: #2
  text: "Hello World!"

preview: #3

_inputs: #4
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `spec` section names this component, and tells CloudCannon where this component can be placed on your site.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="2">
  The `blueprint` section defines the data your component needs, and provides the default values when a new component is created.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `preview` section is used in the Bookshop component browser, and doesn't affect visual editing. We can ignore this key for now.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="4">
  The `_inputs` section is passed through as [CloudCannon's input configuration](/documentation/articles/how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor/),
  allowing you to customize the fields specified in the `blueprint`.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

To get things started, we'll focus on the required `spec` and `blueprint` sections.

## The component spec

The component `spec` controls everything about how a component should be displayed in the CMS, and where it can be added to a page. Let's walk through a more fleshed out `spec` section:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec:
  structures: #1
    - content_blocks
  label: My Component #2
  description: A very simple component #3
  icon: nature_people #4
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The `structures` key tells CloudCannon where this component can be added. In this example,
  we are adding this component to the set of `content_blocks` structures.
  In practice this means that if a `content_blocks` key exists anywhere on your site,
  for example in the front matter of a page, CloudCannon will give editors the option to add
  the `sample` component to that array or object.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="2">
  The `label` key is used as the main title of the component when selecting new components,
  and browsing the existing components on a page.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `description` key can help provide context when selecting a new component in CloudCannon.
</comp.Annotation> <comp.Annotation number="4">
  The `icon` key is ahown alongside existing components in CloudCannon, and when selecting new components.
  This should be the attribute name of any [Material Icon](https://fonts.google.com/icons).
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## The component blueprint

The component `blueprint` is used to generate the CloudCannon Structure for your component. This object will be used as the initial data when the component is added to a page, and represents all of the editable data that your component takes.

If our `sample` component contained the following blueprint:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
blueprint:
  text: "Hello World!"
  color: "#034AD8"
  image:
    image_url: "/image.png"
    image_alt: "My alternate text"
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

Then creating a new `sample` component in CloudCannon would present us with the following data editor:

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/bookshop-11ty/new-sample-component.png" alt="A data editor panel open in CloudCannon showing the initialized state of a new Sample component when added to the page" type="ui-snippet"/>

Component blueprints contain some other powerful features for helping create your Structures. We'll see those soon in the [Nesting components](/documentation/guides/bookshop-eleventy-guide/nesting-components/) page of this guide.

## Generating and using Structures

The `npx @bookshop/generate` command that we set up when [configuring live editing](/documentation/guides/bookshop-eleventy-guide/configuring-live-editing/) will automatically create Structures from your Bookshop components and make them available to CloudCannon. This process happens as part of your site build step on CloudCannon.

The Structures that your component is assigned to determines where it can be added in CloudCannon. For a `sample` component tagged as:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="sample.bookshop.yml">
```
spec:
  structures:
    - content_blocks
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

With the page:

<comp.CodeBlock language="markdown" source="pages/index.md">
```
---
content_blocks:
---
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

CloudCannon will treat `content_blocks` as an array, and allow editors to add the `sample` component to it. Structures can also be accessed in CloudCannon using input configuration; if you want to use a different key, you can configure:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
_inputs:
  page_components:
    type: array #1
    options:
      structures: _structures.content_blocks
```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  Here you may also specify `type: object`, which will function similar to an array with a maximum length of one.
  As an object, a single component from the set of Structures can be added or removed.
</comp.Annotation></comp.CodeBlock>

## Supported File Formats

In the examples above, we have been writing the Bookshop configuration files using YAML. This is the recommended format, but you can also choose another if you prefer.

Bookshop supports reading component files written in `yaml`, `toml`, `json`, and `js`.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Can't decide? You can always run `npx @bookshop/up --format <format>`
  to automatically convert all of your files if you change your mind.
</comp.Notice>
