guides/mkdocs-starter-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ec7f7b9d-1921-4045-aea4-0ca41a76edfa
_created_at: '2023-06-23 03:28:55 +0000'
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-MkDocs.png
description: Learn how to set up your website on the CloudCannon MkDocs CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon MkDocs starter guide! If you want to get your MkDocs Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a MkDocs site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a MkDocs site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

With Gatsby, you can use CloudCannon’s Source Editor out-of-the-box. We’ll teach you how to configure our other editing interfaces — the Content, and Data Editors — for the best editing experience.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to use Python Markdown extensions, and configure MkDocs for the best CloudCannon experience.

Commit message:

Move intro content and rename Introduction step

guides/mkdocs-starter-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ec7f7b9d-1921-4045-aea4-0ca41a76edfa
_created_at: '2023-06-23 03:28:55 +0000'
title: Getting started with CloudCannon
nav_title: Getting started with CloudCannon
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-MkDocs.png
description: Learn how to set up your website on the CloudCannon MkDocs CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon MkDocs starter guide! If you want to get your MkDocs Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a MkDocs site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a MkDocs site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

With Gatsby, you can use CloudCannon’s Source Editor out-of-the-box. We’ll teach you how to configure our other editing interfaces — the Content, and Data Editors — for the best editing experience.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, import snippets to use Python Markdown extensions, and configure MkDocs for the best CloudCannon experience.

## What is CloudCannon?

CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your MkDocs Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about MkDocs, Git, Markdown, or HTML.

If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
