_common_content/starter-guides/starter_guide_step_1.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
content_name: Starter Guide Step 1
parameters:
  SSG_Name:
    comment: >-
      Enter the name of the SSG this guide is for. Leave blank for the universal
      guide.
    type: text
---
<comp.Slot name="SSG_Video"></comp.Slot>

## What is CloudCannon?

<comp.Slot name="Intro_paragraph">
           CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your<comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" />Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about<comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" append="," />Git, Markdown, or HTML.

           If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
</comp.Slot>

## Syncing your files with CloudCannon

To create a Site, CloudCannon needs to sync your website files from their current location. You can:

* Upload files from local storage.
* Connect CloudCannon to your Git provider (we recommend this method).
* Start with a CloudCannon template and push it to your Git provider.

This guide covers creating a Site using files stored on a Git provider.

If you haven't already, <a href="https://app.cloudcannon.com/register" target="_blank" rel="noopener">sign up for CloudCannon</a>. After logging in and selecting an Organization, click the *Sites* button in the *App Sidebar*.

You can add a new Site to CloudCannon using the *\+ Add new Site* button at the top right of the *Sites* page. In the *Create a Site* modal, click the *Use your own files* option.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Modal.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site modal shows two buttons for Use a template and Use your own files." title="The Create a Site modal" type="ui-snippet"/>

Use the *File source* dropdown to select the Git provider you use for your site files. CloudCannon supports <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-github-repository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitHub</a>, <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-bitbucket-respository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Bitbucket</a>, <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-gitlab-respository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitLab</a>, and <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-self-hosted-gitlab-repository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">self-hosted GitLab</a>.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  If this is your first time using CloudCannon, you must give CloudCannon permission to access your Git provider.

  Select your Git provider using the *File source* dropdown, then click the *Authenticate* button. CloudCannon will forward you to your Git provider login screen.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-File-Source.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the File Source dropdown, with options for Bitbucket, GitHub, Gitlab, and local files." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

After confirming your Git provider, the *Repository* dropdown will list all the available repositories on your account. Select your Site repository.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Repository.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Repository dropdown, with options for Bitbucket, GitHub, Gitlab, and local files." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

As a Git-based CMS, CloudCannon uses branches for better version control and to enable you to work on updates to your Site in parallel.

Use the *Branch setup* radio buttons to select either *Use an existing branch* or *Create a new branch*. You will most likely want to use an existing branch, but if you want to try CloudCannon without impacting any of your existing work, you can create a new one.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Branch-Setup.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Branch setup options, including Use an existing branch or Create a new branch." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

Use the *Site name* field to add a name for your Site. This affects what CloudCannon calls your Site and doesn't affect your repository in your Git provider.

CloudCannon will automatically populate this field with the same name as your repository, but you can choose any name for your Site.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Site-Name.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Site Name text field for the name of your site in CloudCannon." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

Click the *Create site and start syncing* button at the bottom of the page.

CloudCannon will begin syncing your files from your Git provider. This process is usually quick, but it may take a few minutes for larger repositories.

Commit message:

Add extra copy to common content 1

_common_content/starter-guides/starter_guide_step_1.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
content_name: Starter Guide Step 1
parameters:
  SSG_Name:
    comment: >-
      Enter the name of the SSG this guide is for. Leave blank for the universal
      guide.
    type: text
---
<comp.Slot name="SSG_Video"></comp.Slot>

## What is CloudCannon?

<comp.Slot name="Intro_paragraph">
           CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your<comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" />Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about<comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" append="," />Git, Markdown, or HTML.

           If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
</comp.Slot>

## Syncing your files with CloudCannon

To create a Site, CloudCannon needs to sync your website files from their current location. You can:

* Upload files from local storage.
* Connect CloudCannon to your Git provider (we recommend this method).
* Start with a CloudCannon template and push it to your Git provider.

This guide covers creating a Site using files stored on a Git provider.

If you haven't already, <a href="https://app.cloudcannon.com/register" target="_blank" rel="noopener">sign up for CloudCannon</a>. After logging in and selecting an Organization, click the *Sites* button in the *App Sidebar*.

You can add a new Site to CloudCannon using the *\+ Add new Site* button at the top right of the *Sites* page. In the *Create a Site* modal, click the *Use your own files* option.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Modal.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site modal shows two buttons for Use a template and Use your own files." title="The Create a Site modal" type="ui-snippet"/>

Use the *File source* dropdown to select the Git provider you use for your site files. CloudCannon supports <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-github-repository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitHub</a>, <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-bitbucket-respository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Bitbucket</a>, <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-gitlab-respository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitLab</a>, and <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/connecting-a-self-hosted-gitlab-repository-as-your-source/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">self-hosted GitLab</a>.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  If this is your first time using CloudCannon, you must give CloudCannon permission to access your Git provider.

  Select your Git provider using the *File source* dropdown, then click the *Authenticate* button. CloudCannon will forward you to your Git provider login screen.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-File-Source.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the File Source dropdown, with options for Bitbucket, GitHub, Gitlab, and local files." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

After confirming your Git provider, the *Repository* dropdown will list all the available repositories on your account. Select your Site repository.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Repository.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Repository dropdown, with options for Bitbucket, GitHub, Gitlab, and local files." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

As a Git-based CMS, CloudCannon uses branches for better version control and to enable you to work on updates to your Site in parallel.

Use the *Branch setup* radio buttons to select either *Use an existing branch* or *Create a new branch*. You will most likely want to use an existing branch, but if you want to try CloudCannon without impacting your existing work, you can create a new one.

If you select *Use an existing branch*, use the *Branch* dropdown to select a branch from your repository.

If you select *Create a new branch*, use the *Source branch* dropdown to select a branch from your repository to copy and enter a name in the *new branch name* field.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Branch-Setup.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Branch setup options, including Use an existing branch or Create a new branch." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

Use the *Site name* field to add a name for your Site. This affects what CloudCannon calls your Site and doesn't affect your repository in your Git provider.

CloudCannon will automatically populate this field with the same name as your repository, but you can choose any name for your Site.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/syncing/create-a-new-site/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Create-a-Site-Site-Name.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create a Site page shows the Site Name text field for the name of your site in CloudCannon." title="The Create a Site page" type="screenshot"/>

Click the *Create site and start syncing* button at the bottom of the page.

CloudCannon will begin syncing your files from your Git provider. This process is usually quick, but it may take a few minutes for larger repositories.
