_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-7.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
content_name: Starter Guide Step 7
parameters:
  SSG_Name:
    comment: >-
      Enter the name of the SSG this guide is for. Leave blank for the universal
      guide.
    type: text
---
Welcome to the end of the guide! Your <comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" /> site should now be live and ready for you to use.

## Hosting

CloudCannon is an all-in-one Content Management System with hosting included. Every site has its own <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/">.cloudvent.net domain name</a> and is hosted on a super-fast Content Delivery Network (CDN) supported by Cloudflare. For a production site, you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/hosting-your-site-on-a-custom-domain/">point your domain to your site</a> or use <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/using-cloudcannon-dns-to-configure-your-custom-domain/">CloudCannon DNS</a> to automate the setup.

All sites receive an SSL certificate, can easily scale to handle any amount of traffic, and offer <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/configuring-custom-routing/#custom-headers">custom routing and headers</a>, <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/getting-started-with-forms-on-cloudcannon/">form submissions</a>, and <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/adding-password-authentication-to-your-site/">various authentication options</a>.

## Next Steps (optional)

We’ve covered everything you need to know to get started — but it doesn’t end there! Here are some optional steps for you to explore.

### Branding

Adding your brand to CloudCannon is a great way to make the app look and feel like your organization.

You can set your primary color — this is mainly used in the side nav and buttons. Your logo is used in two places: a badge in the top left corner with your brand's primary color behind it and on the top of the *Home*, *Project*, *Sites*, and *Domains* pages with a white background behind it.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Organization-Branding.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows the Organization Branding page with a custom color and logo set." title="Customize your branding" type="screenshot"/>

Access your <a rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/customizing-cloudcannon-to-match-your-brand/">branding</a> by navigating to the *Branding* tab, under *Org Settings*.

<comp.Slot name="SSG_Snippets_Paragraph"></comp.Slot>

<comp.Slot name="SSG_Bookshop_Paragraph"></comp.Slot>

## Enjoy your CloudCannon experience!

That should give you a great overview of how to make the most of CloudCannon for your <comp.CommonParam parameters={parameters} parameter="SSG_Name" /> site. If you encounter any difficulties or need assistance with setting something up on CloudCannon, please don’t hesitate to <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/support/">reach out to our support team</a>. We’re always here to help!

Commit message:

Move final two steps of the starter guides to make room for an extra step

_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-7.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
content_name: Starter Guide Step 6
parameters: {}
---
## Sharing your Site

There are multiple ways to share your Sites with others. Your team members can help you edit and review your content, maintain your Sites, and manage your Organization. Each team member has their own CloudCannon account and an individual history of all the changes they have made to your Sites.

You can add team members to your Organization so they can access all your content, add them to a specific site, or customize the level of access you want each team member to have.

See which type of sharing is right for you:

* [Add team members to your Organization](/documentation/articles/add-a-team-member-to-your-organization/).
* Add team members to a specific Site with [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/).
* Give someone without a CloudCannon account access to a specific Site using [Client Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-client-sharing/).

For [Enterprise customers](/pricing/), CloudCannon also provides support for [SSO/SAML](/documentation/articles/what-is-sso-saml/) authentication.

## Permission Groups

You can choose what level of access your team members have to your content. In CloudCannon, permissions control what actions your team members can perform within your Organization. The [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) a team member belongs to determine their permissions.

All Permission Groups consist of a list of resources and the scopes those resources apply to. They also define how a Group member can interact with those resources (i.e., the capacity to Read, Write, or Create a resource).

CloudCannon provides several [Default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/), so you can choose the correct level of access for each team member.

* Four Permission Groups with Global scope (Owners, Developers, Technical Editors, and Editors).
* Two Permission Groups per Site, each with a Site scope for Site Sharing (Technical Editors and Editors).
* One Permission Group per Site with Site scope for Client Sharing.

If you are on a Team or Enterprise plan, you can also customize your own Permission Groups. [Custom Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/) give you full control over which resources are in each Group and enable extra options for scope, exceptions, and file globs.

## Projects

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  Some features of the advanced publishing workflow are only available on our [Team and Enterprise plans](/pricing/).
</comp.Notice>

As a Git-based CMS, you can set up branching/staging workflows, pull requests, and branch merges on CloudCannon. All of this is possible with [Projects](/documentation/articles/create-a-project/). Once you have a site set up, you can create a Project. Team members can create a copy of the site on a new branch, where they can make changes without impacting the main branch. When they are ready to publish, team members can click the publish button to merge their branch or create a pull request.

For more help setting up Projects, check out our <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/guides/staging-workflow-guide/creating-a-project/" rel="noreferrer">Staging Workflow Guide</a> or <a href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/support/" rel="noreferrer">reach out to our support team</a>.
