guides/hugo-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 9e25b632-6e98-4ff3-8442-33a7714704be
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Hugo.png
description: >-
  Configure the CloudCannon file editors to give your content team the best
  experience.
tags: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical: /documentation/guides/universal-starter-guide/editor-configuration/
---
<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Hugo.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Install Command: Configure the command to install dependencies before the build. By default, this installs npm packages. This is run as a line of bash and can be anything you want. A common change here is to use `yarn install` instead.
    * Any Hugo options required to match your site. Common changes include specifying a custom config file, or overriding the source directory.
    * If your Hugo site uses any [Git variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/git/):
      * Toggle on **Enable Git Info** within the **Command Line Options** section.
      * Also toggle on **Include Git Folder** within the **Advanced Options** section.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Errors">
    <comp.Notice info_type="important">
              **Common Hugo Build Errors**

              If you built your site using the <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/">Hugo Quick Start guide</a>, you will have installed the Ananke theme for Hugo as a git submodule. CloudCannon doesn't support submodules by default, but you can clone the submodule repository using CloudCannon's build hooks.

              To fix this build error, create a .cloudcannon/preinstall file in the root directory of your repository, with this line of code:

            <comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source=".cloudcannon/preinstall">
            ```
            git clone https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke.git themes/ananke
            ```
            </comp.CodeBlock>


            </comp.Notice>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Plugin

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/cloudcannon-hugo` after your SSG.

    The CloudCannon Hugo Plugin is a tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    We'll cover the CloudCannon Configuration file in a later step of this guide. If you want to look under the hood or customize your setup further, this plugin is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/cloudcannon-hugo">CloudCannon Hugo plugin</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>

Commit message:

update description for "Build your site"

guides/hugo-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 9e25b632-6e98-4ff3-8442-33a7714704be
_created_at: '2023-02-01 02:40:30 +0000'
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Hugo.png
description: >-
  Learn how to build your Site to use previews, the testing domain, and the Visual Editor.
tags: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical: /documentation/guides/universal-starter-guide/editor-configuration/
---
<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Hugo.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Install Command: Configure the command to install dependencies before the build. By default, this installs npm packages. This is run as a line of bash and can be anything you want. A common change here is to use `yarn install` instead.
    * Any Hugo options required to match your site. Common changes include specifying a custom config file, or overriding the source directory.
    * If your Hugo site uses any [Git variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/git/):
      * Toggle on **Enable Git Info** within the **Command Line Options** section.
      * Also toggle on **Include Git Folder** within the **Advanced Options** section.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Errors">
    <comp.Notice info_type="important">
              **Common Hugo Build Errors**

              If you built your site using the <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/">Hugo Quick Start guide</a>, you will have installed the Ananke theme for Hugo as a git submodule. CloudCannon doesn't support submodules by default, but you can clone the submodule repository using CloudCannon's build hooks.

              To fix this build error, create a .cloudcannon/preinstall file in the root directory of your repository, with this line of code:

            <comp.CodeBlock language="bash" source=".cloudcannon/preinstall">
            ```
            git clone https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke.git themes/ananke
            ```
            </comp.CodeBlock>


            </comp.Notice>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Plugin

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/cloudcannon-hugo` after your SSG.

    The CloudCannon Hugo Plugin is a tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    We'll cover the CloudCannon Configuration file in a later step of this guide. If you want to look under the hood or customize your setup further, this plugin is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/cloudcannon-hugo">CloudCannon Hugo plugin</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>
