articles/array-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7527b2a4-c789-446e-ad25-4f6d1a050f47
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Array inputs
nav_title: Array inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure an Array input to store ordered lists of values in your
  data files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Explanation
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
  - editing-objects-in-your-data
  - create-a-structure
  - structures-reference
  - changing-how-cards-preview-your-data
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
An Array input lets your team members create a list of inputs or grouped inputs. Array inputs contain nested inputs of any type, including other Arrays and [Objects](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/). There is no limit to how many nested layers you can create within an Array. Creating a list of inputs, or input groups, is useful for organizing your data.

You can populate an Array input using predefined templates called structures. For more information on structures, please read our [structures](/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/) documentation.

For each input you can configure which structures are associated with the input, the appearance of the preview card, and how CloudCannon handles empty values. You can also use the [general configuration options](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/#general-configuration-options) available for all inputs.

## Array

The Array input provides a user interface for lists of entries. Each "entry" in an Array can be a single value, an input, or an [Object](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/) containing several inputs. Array inputs appear as a series of [cards](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/) in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Closed.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing a preview of the content within multiple entries." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

For entries that use a key name (i.e., Objects or single inputs), the card will preview some of the content within the key. This can include images, strings, and key names. You can configure the preview settings for these cards.

Simpler entries, such as text, number, or boolean values, do not use cards. Instead, they appear as editable inline fields.

Array inputs can contain a mixture of inline fields and cards simultaneously.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Value-Types.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing multiple types of entries." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can reorder, clone, add, and delete new entries in the list using the *Context menu*. You can also add new entries using the *\+ Add* button below the Array — the text on this button will differ depending on the key name of your input.

By default, adding a new entry to an Array input will clone the last entry in the Array.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Context-Menu.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing the Context Menu with Add, Clone, Move, and Delete options." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

When you click on a card in the Array, it will open to show the nested inputs within that Array entry. The *Back* button at the top of the entry will return you to the parent scope.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Open.png" alt="A screenshot of an open entry in an Array input in the Data Editor, showing the nested keys within this Object." title="An open entry in an Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Array input using the `type` key with the value `array`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  staff___2___:
    type___3___: array

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Array input is called `staff`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `array` input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  For Array inputs to function correctly, they must contain at least one entry. You can add entries to an Array using the [Source Editor](/documentation/articles/the-source-editor/). Alternatively, you can configure an entry input type or a structure to allow team members to populate the Array.
</comp.Notice>

Once configured, the Array input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="page.md">
```
---
staff:
  - name: Karen Key
    position: Project Manager
    image: /images/team/karen_key.jpg
  - name: Holly James
    position: Marketing Manager
    image: /images/team/holly_james.jpg
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Populating an Array input

Without additional configuration, default Array inputs become misconfigured when empty.

In default Array inputs, CloudCannon will clone the last entry in the Array to add a new entry. This method is not possible with an empty Array. You can configure the entry input type or create a structure to avoid this issue and support empty Arrays.

### Entry input type

The entry input type specifies what type of input each new entry should be. Defining the entry input type for an Array input allows the Array to be empty without becoming misconfigured. All new entries added to an Array input will match the input type specified by the entry input type.

Array inputs with a defined entry input type avoid the issue of becoming misconfigured when empty. Because you have specified which input type to use in the Array, CloudCannon can repopulate the input if you delete the contents of the Array or create a new instance of that input.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-of-Images.png" alt="A screenshot of an Array input in the Data Editor, containing only Image inputs." title="An Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure the entry input type for your Array input under the `_inputs` key. To specify future entries within a particular Array, use the key name of the Array followed by the `[*]` characters. Define the type of input for those entries with the `type` key.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  gallery:
    type: array
  gallery[*]___1___:
    type: image

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The entry input type determines how CloudCannon should populate an Array input. The entry input type for the `gallery` Array is `image` inputs.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Structured Arrays

A structured Array allows your team to select a predefined template to populate the inputs.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  This input type relies on structures. For more information about how to configure structures, please read our [structures documentation](https://bubblegum-dugong.cloudvent.net/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/).
</comp.Notice>

Structured Array inputs appear similar to the default input. However, unlike the default array input, when you click the *\+ Add* button to add a new array entry, CloudCannon will prompt you to select which structure to use.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Structured-Array-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of a structured Array input in the Data Editor, showing a dropdown menu to select the structure for a new entry." title="A structured Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

Structured Array inputs avoid the issue of becoming misconfigured when empty. Because you have configured at least one structure and linked it to your input, CloudCannon can repopulate the input if you delete the contents of the Array or create a new instance of that input.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Empty-Structured-Array-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of an empty structured Array input in the Data Editor, showing a dropdown menu to select the structure for a new entry." title="An empty Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Array input using the `structures` key. Define the `structures` key under `options` within your input key name. The value of the `structures` key can be a string or an object.

If you have defined your structures elsewhere under the `_structures` key, you can reference it by using the key name as the value (i.e., `_structures.key_name`).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  staff___1___:
    type___2___: array
    options:
      structures___3___: _structures.staff_members

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  This Object input is called `staff`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `array` input.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `structures` option determines what should populate the input. In this case, it references the structure called `staff_members` defined under `_structures` elsewhere in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Alternatively, you create an Array called `values` to define your structures directly within your input configuration.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  staff___1___:
    type___2___: array
    options:
      structures___3___:
        values:
          - label: Manager
            icon: face
            value:
              name:
              job_description:
              profile_picture:
              url:
          - label: Employee
            icon: support_agent
            value:
              name:
              job_description:
              profile_picture:

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  This Object input is called `feature_section`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `object` input.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `structures` option determines what should populate the input. In this case, it is an object containing the `values` Array. For more information about how to configure structures, please read our [structures documentation](https://bubblegum-dugong.cloudvent.net/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/).
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

You can configure Array inputs using the `options` key under your input key, inside of `_inputs`.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

page_sections:
_inputs:
  page_sections:
    type: array
    options:
      structures: _structures.components
      preview:
        text:
          - key: name
        subtext:
          - key: description
        image:
          - key: my_image
        icon: article
      empty_type: string

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Array inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    This key determines which predefined templates to use for populating the Object Input. When configured, team members can select a [structure](/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/) to populate the Object with input/input groups. This key has no default.

    If configured as an object, CloudCannon will use the values directly.

    If configured as a string, CloudCannon will use the matching structures value defined under `_structures` in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="object">
    This key enables you to define the appearance of the input in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor. The following nested keys are available:

    * `text`
    * `subtext`
    * `icon`
    * `image`

    If the Object Input uses `structures`, CloudCannon will use the `preview` key from the structure instead.

    For more information about previews, please read our documentation on [configuring card previews](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the title text displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to the first nested value found (prioritizing text-based values).

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the subtitle text displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to listing the `label` of each nested input. `subtext` is hidden if text and subtext are the same. If there is no text, subtext will appear in the place of text.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the icon displayed on a default Object Input card. The value must match a name from the [Material Icons](https://fonts.google.com/icons?icon.set=Material+Icons) list. Defaults checking the `icon` key, then falls back to the `notes` icon.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is defined, the image replace `icon` when loaded successfully.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the image displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order. If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    This key determines how CloudCannon handles an empty value. This key does not apply to existing empty values.

    Value must be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as "".
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Unconfigured Array inputs

In some cases, CloudCannon can still detect an Array input even if you have not configured it.

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with a list of nested values or keys as an Array input. You cannot create structured Array inputs without configuration.

<comp.CodeBlock language="YAML" source="data.yml">
```
animals:
  - bear
  - lizard
  - swan
  - name: Dog
    fun_fact: Man's best friend.
    image: /images/my-dog.png
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

This behavior is convenient if you have simple inputs or do not want to configure inputs. It is also beneficial for new websites on CloudCannon where you have yet to create any CloudCannon-specific configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  We recommend configuring your inputs for greater control over their functionality and appearance.
</comp.Notice>

Commit message:

Spelling and grammar for Object inputs

articles/array-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7527b2a4-c789-446e-ad25-4f6d1a050f47
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Array inputs
nav_title: Array inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure an Array input to store ordered lists of values in your
  data files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Explanation
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
  - editing-objects-in-your-data
  - create-a-structure
  - structures-reference
  - changing-how-cards-preview-your-data
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
An Array input lets your team members create a list of inputs or grouped inputs. Array inputs contain nested inputs of any type, including other Arrays and [Objects](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/). There is no limit to how many nested layers you can create within an Array. Creating a list of inputs, or input groups, is useful for organizing your data.

You can populate an Array input using predefined templates called structures. For more information on structures, please read our [structures](/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/) documentation.

For each input you can configure which structures are associated with the input, the appearance of the preview card, and how CloudCannon handles empty values. You can also use the [general configuration options](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/#general-configuration-options) available for all inputs.

## Array

The Array input provides a user interface for lists of entries. Each "entry" in an Array can be a single value, an input, or an [Object](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/) containing several inputs. Array inputs appear as a series of [cards](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/) in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Closed.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing a preview of the content within multiple entries." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

For entries that use a key name (i.e., Objects or single inputs), the card will preview some of the content within the key. This can include images, strings, and key names. You can configure the preview settings for these cards.

Simpler entries, such as text, number, or boolean values, do not use cards. Instead, they appear as editable inline fields.

Array inputs can contain a mixture of inline fields and cards simultaneously.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Value-Types.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing multiple types of entries." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can reorder, clone, add, and delete new entries in the list using the *Context menu*. You can also add new entries using the *\+ Add* button below the Array — the text on this button will differ depending on the key name of your input.

By default, adding a new entry to an Array input will clone the last entry in the Array.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Context-Menu.png" alt="A screenshot of the Array input in the Data Editor, showing the Context Menu with Add, Clone, Move, and Delete options." title="The Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

When you click on a card in the Array, it will open to show the nested inputs within that Array entry. The *Back* button at the top of the entry will return you to the parent scope.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-Open.png" alt="A screenshot of an open entry in an Array input in the Data Editor, showing the nested keys within this Object." title="An open entry in an Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Array input using the `type` key with the value `array`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  staff___2___:
    type___3___: array

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Array input is called `staff`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `array` input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  For Array inputs to function correctly, they must contain at least one entry. You can add entries to an Array using the [Source Editor](/documentation/articles/the-source-editor/). Alternatively, you can configure an entry input type or a structure to allow team members to populate the Array.
</comp.Notice>

Once configured, the Array input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="page.md">
```
---
staff:
  - name: Karen Key
    position: Project Manager
    image: /images/team/karen_key.jpg
  - name: Holly James
    position: Marketing Manager
    image: /images/team/holly_james.jpg
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Populating an Array input

Without additional configuration, default Array inputs become misconfigured when empty.

In default Array inputs, CloudCannon will clone the last entry in the Array to add a new entry. This method is not possible with an empty Array. You can configure the entry input type or create a structure to avoid this issue and support empty Arrays.

### Entry input type

The entry input type defines what type of input CloudCannon should use to populate an Array or [Object](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/). Defining the entry input type for an Array input allows the Array to be empty without becoming misconfigured. All new entries added to an Array input will match the input type specified by the entry input type.

Array inputs with a defined entry input type avoid the issue of becoming misconfigured when empty. Because you have specified which input type to use in the Array, CloudCannon can repopulate the input if you delete the contents of the Array or create a new instance of that input.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Array-Input-of-Images.png" alt="A screenshot of an Array input in the Data Editor, containing only Image inputs." title="An Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure the entry input type for your Array input under the `_inputs` key. To specify future entries within a particular Array, use the key name of the Array followed by the `[*]` characters. Define the type of input for those entries with the `type` key.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  gallery:
    type: array
  gallery[*]___1___:
    type: image

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  The entry input type determines how CloudCannon should populate an Array input. The entry input type for the `gallery` Array is `image` inputs.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Structured Arrays

A structured Array allows your team to select a predefined template to populate the inputs.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  This input type relies on structures. For more information about how to configure structures, please read our [structures documentation](https://bubblegum-dugong.cloudvent.net/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/).
</comp.Notice>

Structured Array inputs appear similar to the default input. However, unlike the default array input, when you click the *\+ Add* button to add a new array entry, CloudCannon will prompt you to select which structure to use.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Structured-Array-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of a structured Array input in the Data Editor, showing a dropdown menu to select the structure for a new entry." title="A structured Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

Structured Array inputs avoid the issue of becoming misconfigured when empty. Because you have configured at least one structure and linked it to your input, CloudCannon can repopulate the input if you delete the contents of the Array or create a new instance of that input.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/array/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Empty-Structured-Array-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of an empty structured Array input in the Data Editor, showing a dropdown menu to select the structure for a new entry." title="An empty Array input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Array input using the `structures` key. Define the `structures` key under `options` within your input key name. The value of the `structures` key can be a string or an object.

If you have defined your structures elsewhere under the `_structures` key, you can reference it by using the key name as the value (i.e., `_structures.key_name`).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  staff___1___:
    type___2___: array
    options:
      structures___3___: _structures.staff_members

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  This Object input is called `staff`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `array` input.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `structures` option determines what should populate the input. In this case, it references the structure called `staff_members` defined under `_structures` elsewhere in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Alternatively, you create an Array called `values` to define your structures directly within your input configuration.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  staff___1___:
    type___2___: array
    options:
      structures___3___:
        values:
          - label: Manager
            icon: face
            value:
              name:
              job_description:
              profile_picture:
              url:
          - label: Employee
            icon: support_agent
            value:
              name:
              job_description:
              profile_picture:

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  This Object input is called `feature_section`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is an `object` input.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The `structures` option determines what should populate the input. In this case, it is an object containing the `values` Array. For more information about how to configure structures, please read our [structures documentation](https://bubblegum-dugong.cloudvent.net/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/).
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

You can configure Array inputs using the `options` key under your input key, inside of `_inputs`.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "JavaScript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

page_sections:
_inputs:
  page_sections:
    type: array
    options:
      structures: _structures.components
      preview:
        text:
          - key: name
        subtext:
          - key: description
        image:
          - key: my_image
        icon: article
      empty_type: string

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Array inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    This key determines which predefined templates to use for populating the Object Input. When configured, team members can select a [structure](/documentation/articles/create-a-structure/) to populate the Object with input/input groups. This key has no default.

    If configured as an object, CloudCannon will use the values directly.

    If configured as a string, CloudCannon will use the matching structures value defined under `_structures` in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="object">
    This key enables you to define the appearance of the input in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor. The following nested keys are available:

    * `text`
    * `subtext`
    * `icon`
    * `image`

    If the Object Input uses `structures`, CloudCannon will use the `preview` key from the structure instead.

    For more information about previews, please read our documentation on [configuring card previews](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the title text displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to the first nested value found (prioritizing text-based values).

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the subtitle text displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to listing the `label` of each nested input. `subtext` is hidden if text and subtext are the same. If there is no text, subtext will appear in the place of text.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the icon displayed on a default Object Input card. The value must match a name from the [Material Icons](https://fonts.google.com/icons?icon.set=Material+Icons) list. Defaults checking the `icon` key, then falls back to the `notes` icon.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is defined, the image replace `icon` when loaded successfully.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="array, string, or boolean">
    This key determines the image displayed on a default Object Input card. This key has no default, and falls back to `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order. If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    This key determines how CloudCannon handles an empty value. This key does not apply to existing empty values.

    Value must be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as "".
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Unconfigured Array inputs

In some cases, CloudCannon can still detect an Array input even if you have not configured it.

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with a list of nested values or keys as an Array input. You cannot create structured Array inputs without configuration.

<comp.CodeBlock language="YAML" source="data.yml">
```
animals:
  - bear
  - lizard
  - swan
  - name: Dog
    fun_fact: Man's best friend.
    image: /images/my-dog.png
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

This behavior is convenient if you have simple inputs or do not want to configure inputs. It is also beneficial for new websites on CloudCannon where you have yet to create any CloudCannon-specific configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  We recommend configuring your inputs for greater control over their functionality and appearance.
</comp.Notice>
