articles/boolean-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 917e4ece-c982-489a-97fa-e4a4b20ee380
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Boolean inputs
nav_title: Boolean inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  These inputs are for editing true/false values in your data. They can be
  triggered on or off.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links: []
---
These inputs are for editing true/false values in your data.

## Checkbox

Checkbox input for values that can be toggled.

Checkbox inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `checkbox`, or for the inputs values `true` and `false`.

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/boolean/checkbox.png" alt="Screenshot of checkbox input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Value convention">
```

show_feature: true

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

featured: true
_inputs:
  featured:
    type: checkbox

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Switch

Switch input for values that can be toggled.

Switch inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `switch`.

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/boolean/switch.png" alt="Screenshot of switch input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

featured: true
_inputs:
  featured:
    type: switch

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **checkbox** and **switch** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `is_true: `

    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `is_true: true`
    * `is_true: false`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `is_true = true`
    * `is_true = false`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"is_true": null`

    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `"is_true": true`
    * `"is_true": false`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>

Commit message:

Update page description for all inputs

articles/boolean-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 917e4ece-c982-489a-97fa-e4a4b20ee380
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Boolean inputs
nav_title: Boolean inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a Boolean input to store true or false values in your
  data files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links: []
---
These inputs are for editing true/false values in your data.

## Checkbox

Checkbox input for values that can be toggled.

Checkbox inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `checkbox`, or for the inputs values `true` and `false`.

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/boolean/checkbox.png" alt="Screenshot of checkbox input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Value convention">
```

show_feature: true

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

featured: true
_inputs:
  featured:
    type: checkbox

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Switch

Switch input for values that can be toggled.

Switch inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `switch`.

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/boolean/switch.png" alt="Screenshot of switch input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

featured: true
_inputs:
  featured:
    type: switch

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **checkbox** and **switch** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `is_true: `

    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `is_true: true`
    * `is_true: false`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `is_true = true`
    * `is_true = false`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"is_true": null`

    Boolean values (without any quotation marks):
    * `"is_true": true`
    * `"is_true": false`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>
