articles/choosing-where-to-create-new-files.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 05a7b23a-7e49-4961-9d15-8f1b506becc5
_created_at: '2022-12-07 01:51:21 +0000'
title: Choosing where to create new files
nav_title: Create paths
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  When you create a file for a collection in CloudCannon, it is saved at a path
  generated from a configured pattern.

  These patterns are called "Create Paths". Create Paths are templates with a
  mixture of literal text and placeholders. You can use this to organize where
  your content files are stored as your team members create them.
tags: []
related_links:
---
When you create a file for a collection in CloudCannon, it is saved at a path generated from a configured pattern. These patterns are called "Create Paths". You can use these to keep your content files organized as your team members create them.

Create Paths are templates with a mixture of literal text and placeholders.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  [Placeholders](#placeholders) are dynamic parts of the create path that are replaced when saving the file. They are defined between these pairs of brackets: `[ ]` and `{ }`.
</comp.Notice>

To change a create path:

* Open your global configuration file.
* Add create to a `collection_config` or `schemas` entry.

## Examples
Using the slugified title from inside the new file's front matter (or data):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  The example above is the default value for `create` if not configured.
</comp.Notice>

If you are only setting the path inside create, you can set it directly as a string instead of an object:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create: '[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Using various data from new file's front matter (or data):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  archives:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/my-folder/{date|year}-{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Using a fixed filename and a data-dependent folder:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  main_pages:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/pages/{slug|deburr|slugify}/_index.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Defining a `filename` data placeholder based on `date` and `title`, then slugifies that to remove the potential leading hypens when `date` is unset (`slugify` removes leading and trailing hyphens):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    create:
      extra_data:
        filename: '{date|year}-{date|month}-{date|day}-{title}'
      path: '[relative_base_path]/{filename|slugify}.[ext]'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Entries in `extra_data` are processed before `path`. They are accessible as data placeholders in `path`.
</comp.Notice>

Overriding the default Create Path for a specific schema only:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    schemas:
      default:
        path: schemas/post.md
      news:
        path: schemas/post-news.md
        create:
          path: 'news/{date|year}/{slug}[count].md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Escaping brackets to use them in your output path:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create:
      path: '{section}/\[slug\].js'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Placeholders
Create Paths have a number of placeholders available. There are two types of placeholders: file and data placeholders.

**File placeholders** are always available, are surrounded with `[ ]` brackets, and relate to the original file path the editor was opened at:

* `[slug]` is the original filename, excluding extension. Is an empty string if this results in “index”.
* `[filename]` is the original filename, including extension.
* `[ext]` is the last extension of the original file path.
* `[relative_path]` is the full original file path, relative to the collection path.
* `[relative_base_path]` is the original path excluding filename, relative to the collection path.
* `[full_slug]` is an alias for `[relative_base_path]/[slug]`.
* `[count]` becomes a hyphen and number if the processed file path clashes with an existing file (e.g. `file-1.md`)

**Data placeholders** are populated from front matter or data values in the editor. They are surrounded with `{ }` brackets. Here are some examples:

* `{title}` is the title from inside the file.
* `{id}` is the id from inside the file.
* `{title|lowercase}` is title from inside the file, lower cased.
* `{category|slugify}` is category from inside the file, slugified.
* `{tag|slugify|uppercase}` is tag from inside the file, slugified, then upper cased.
* `{date|year}` is date from inside the file, with the 4-digit year extracted.
* `{date|month}` is date from inside the file, with the 2-digit month extracted.
* `{date|day}` is date from inside the file, with the 2-digit day extracted.

Data placeholders support a number of **filters**. They are placed after a `|`, and multiple filters can be applied in sequence.

* `uppercase` transforms text to uppercase.
* `lowercase` transforms text to lowercase.
* `deburr` converts Latin-1 Supplement and Latin Extended-A letters to basic Latin letters and removes combining diacritical marks.
* `slugify` converts non-alphanumeric characters into hyphens, then collapses sequential hyphens, then removes leading/trailing and hyphens.
* `year` extracts the 4-digit year extracted from a date.
* `month` extracts the 2-digit month extracted from a date.
* `day` extracts the 2-digit day extracted from a date.

**Each data placeholder used in the Create Path adds an input to the save confirmation modal.**

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Changing the inputs in the save confirmation modal will also update those values in your data/front matter if those inputs are also present there.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/save-confirmation.png" alt="Save confirmation screen with data placeholder inputs" type="screenshot" />

## Options
Create Paths have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="extra_data" type_markdown="Object">
    Adds to the available data placeholders coming from the file. Entry values follow the same format as `path`, and are processed sequentially before `path`. These values are not saved back to your file.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="path" type_markdown="String">
    The raw template to be processed when creating files. Relative to the containing collection's `path`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="publish_to" type_markdown="String">
    Defines a target collection when publishing. When a file is published (currently only relevant to Jekyll), the target collection's `create` definition is used instead.

    *Unless you are changing the default Jekyll publish flow it is unlikely you need to set this.*
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

The `create` entry is part of the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/), extending the number of relevant [options available](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/#options)\:

* `_inputs`
* `_select_data`
* `_structures`

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    create:
      path: 'news/{date|year}/{slug}[count].md'
      _inputs:
        date:
          comment: Use the starting date here
        slug:
          comment: This is used for your filename
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Commit message:

Rename "Set the path for new files"

articles/choosing-where-to-create-new-files.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 05a7b23a-7e49-4961-9d15-8f1b506becc5
_created_at: '2022-12-07 01:51:21 +0000'
title: Set the path for new files
nav_title: Set the path for new files
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  When you create a file for a collection in CloudCannon, it is saved at a path
  generated from a configured pattern.

  These patterns are called "Create Paths". Create Paths are templates with a
  mixture of literal text and placeholders. You can use this to organize where
  your content files are stored as your team members create them.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
When you create a file for a collection in CloudCannon, it is saved at a path generated from a configured pattern. These patterns are called "Create Paths". You can use these to keep your content files organized as your team members create them.

Create Paths are templates with a mixture of literal text and placeholders.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  [Placeholders](#placeholders) are dynamic parts of the create path that are replaced when saving the file. They are defined between these pairs of brackets: `[ ]` and `{ }`.
</comp.Notice>

To change a create path:

* Open your global configuration file.
* Add create to a `collection_config` or `schemas` entry.

## Examples
Using the slugified title from inside the new file's front matter (or data):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  The example above is the default value for `create` if not configured.
</comp.Notice>

If you are only setting the path inside create, you can set it directly as a string instead of an object:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create: '[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Using various data from new file's front matter (or data):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  archives:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/my-folder/{date|year}-{title|slugify}.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Using a fixed filename and a data-dependent folder:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  main_pages:
    create:
      path: '[relative_base_path]/pages/{slug|deburr|slugify}/_index.md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Defining a `filename` data placeholder based on `date` and `title`, then slugifies that to remove the potential leading hypens when `date` is unset (`slugify` removes leading and trailing hyphens):

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    create:
      extra_data:
        filename: '{date|year}-{date|month}-{date|day}-{title}'
      path: '[relative_base_path]/{filename|slugify}.[ext]'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Entries in `extra_data` are processed before `path`. They are accessible as data placeholders in `path`.
</comp.Notice>

Overriding the default Create Path for a specific schema only:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    schemas:
      default:
        path: schemas/post.md
      news:
        path: schemas/post-news.md
        create:
          path: 'news/{date|year}/{slug}[count].md'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Escaping brackets to use them in your output path:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    create:
      path: '{section}/\[slug\].js'
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Placeholders
Create Paths have a number of placeholders available. There are two types of placeholders: file and data placeholders.

**File placeholders** are always available, are surrounded with `[ ]` brackets, and relate to the original file path the editor was opened at:

* `[slug]` is the original filename, excluding extension. Is an empty string if this results in “index”.
* `[filename]` is the original filename, including extension.
* `[ext]` is the last extension of the original file path.
* `[relative_path]` is the full original file path, relative to the collection path.
* `[relative_base_path]` is the original path excluding filename, relative to the collection path.
* `[full_slug]` is an alias for `[relative_base_path]/[slug]`.
* `[count]` becomes a hyphen and number if the processed file path clashes with an existing file (e.g. `file-1.md`)

**Data placeholders** are populated from front matter or data values in the editor. They are surrounded with `{ }` brackets. Here are some examples:

* `{title}` is the title from inside the file.
* `{id}` is the id from inside the file.
* `{title|lowercase}` is title from inside the file, lower cased.
* `{category|slugify}` is category from inside the file, slugified.
* `{tag|slugify|uppercase}` is tag from inside the file, slugified, then upper cased.
* `{date|year}` is date from inside the file, with the 4-digit year extracted.
* `{date|month}` is date from inside the file, with the 2-digit month extracted.
* `{date|day}` is date from inside the file, with the 2-digit day extracted.

Data placeholders support a number of **filters**. They are placed after a `|`, and multiple filters can be applied in sequence.

* `uppercase` transforms text to uppercase.
* `lowercase` transforms text to lowercase.
* `deburr` converts Latin-1 Supplement and Latin Extended-A letters to basic Latin letters and removes combining diacritical marks.
* `slugify` converts non-alphanumeric characters into hyphens, then collapses sequential hyphens, then removes leading/trailing and hyphens.
* `year` extracts the 4-digit year extracted from a date.
* `month` extracts the 2-digit month extracted from a date.
* `day` extracts the 2-digit day extracted from a date.

**Each data placeholder used in the Create Path adds an input to the save confirmation modal.**

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Changing the inputs in the save confirmation modal will also update those values in your data/front matter if those inputs are also present there.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/save-confirmation.png" alt="Save confirmation screen with data placeholder inputs" type="screenshot" />

## Options
Create Paths have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="extra_data" type_markdown="Object">
    Adds to the available data placeholders coming from the file. Entry values follow the same format as `path`, and are processed sequentially before `path`. These values are not saved back to your file.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="path" type_markdown="String">
    The raw template to be processed when creating files. Relative to the containing collection's `path`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="publish_to" type_markdown="String">
    Defines a target collection when publishing. When a file is published (currently only relevant to Jekyll), the target collection's `create` definition is used instead.

    *Unless you are changing the default Jekyll publish flow it is unlikely you need to set this.*
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

The `create` entry is part of the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/), extending the number of relevant [options available](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/#options)\:

* `_inputs`
* `_select_data`
* `_structures`

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    create:
      path: 'news/{date|year}/{slug}[count].md'
      _inputs:
        date:
          comment: Use the starting date here
        slug:
          comment: This is used for your filename
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>
