articles/configuring-toolbars.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2022-02-26 00:00:00 +0000'
title: Configuring Rich Text Toolbars
nav_title: Rich Text Toolbars
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Set which actions are available to editors when editing content in CloudCannon
tags:
  - editor
related_articles:
  - introducing-the-visual-editor
related_links: []
---
Editable Regions are configured with the `_editables` option within the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). The following keys are available within `_editables`\:

* `text` for simple block editable regions like (e.g. `<p>`)
* `block` for block editable regions (e.g. `<div>` or `<section>`)
* `link` for inline editable regions on `<a>` tags
* `image` for image editable regions (i.e. `<img>`)
* `content` for the main content section of the [Content Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-content-editor/).

Alternatively, you can configure options directly on the element with a JSON value in the `data-cms-options` attribute.

```html
<p class="editable" data-cms-options='{ "bold": true }'>
  ...
</p>
```
<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
_editables:
  text:
    italic: true
  block:
    format: p h3
    undo: true
    redo: true
  content:
    blockquote: true
    bold: true
    format: p h1 h2 h3 h4 h5 h6 pre address div
    italic: true
    strike: true
    subscript: true
    superscript: true
    underline: true
    link: true
    bulletedlist: true
    indent: true
    numberedlist: true
    outdent: true
    code: true
    embed: true
    horizontalrule: true
    image: true
    table: true
    undo: true
    redo: true
    removeformat: true
    copyformatting: true
    styles: /css/editor.css
    left: align-left
    center: align-center
    right: align-right
    justify: align-justify
    image_size_attributes: true
    snippet: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>
<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Although this is example sets the options globally, you can set this on different scopes in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Notice>
<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="page.html">
```
<p data-cms-options='{"bold": true, "italic": true}'
  class="editable"></p>

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

### Formatting

Options for base text formatting.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="blockquote" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to wrap blocks of text in block quotes.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="bold" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to bold.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="format" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a drop down menu for structured text. Has options for `p`, `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`, `h6`, `pre`, `address`, and `div`. Set as space separated options, e.g. `format: p h1 h2`.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="italic" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to italicize selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="strike" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to strike selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="subscript" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to subscript.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="superscript" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to superscript.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="underline" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to underline selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="link" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to create hyperlinks around selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### List controls

Options for managing text in lists and nested lists.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="bulletedlist" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert an unordered list, or to convert selected blocks of text into a unordered list.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="indent" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to increase indentation for numbered and unordered lists.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="numberedlist" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a numbered list, or to convert selected blocks of text into a numbered list.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="outdent" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to reduce indentation for numbered and unordered lists.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Block content

Options for adding media and full-width content elements.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="code" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to inline code, and unselected blocks of text to code blocks.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="embed" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a region of raw HTML, including YouTube, Vimeo, Tweets, and other media. Embedded content is sanitized to mitigate XSS risks, which includes removing `style` tags. Embeds containing `script` tags are not loaded in the editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="horizontalrule" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a horizontal rule.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="image" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert an image. The image can be uploaded, existing or an external link.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="table" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a table. Further options for table cells are available in the context menu for cells within the editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="snippet" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert snippets, if any are available.  See [Editing with Hugo Shortcodes](/documentation/articles/snippets-using-hugo-shortcodes/)/

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Image options

Options for images when enabled.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="image_size_attributes" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Instructs the editor to save `width` and `height` on the image elements added to this editable. This can [prevent pop-in](/documentation/articles/why-cloudcannon-injects-width-and-height-onto-images/) as a page loads. Defaults to `true`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="width" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the width of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="height" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the height of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="resize_style" type_markdown="String">
    Sets how uploaded image files are resized with a bounding box defined by `width` and `height` prior to upload. Defaults to `contain`. Must be `contain`, `cover` or `stretch`\:

    * `cover` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image covers the bounding box
    * `contain` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image fits inside the bounding box
    * `stretch` ignores aspect ratio and resizes the image to the bounding box

    Has no effect when selecting existing images, or if `width` and `height` are not set.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="mime_type" type_markdown="String">
    Sets what format the image is converted to prior to upload. The extension of the file is updated to match. Defaults to keeping the mime type of the uploaded file. Must be one of `image/jpeg` or `image/png`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="expandable" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not images can be upscaled to fit the bounding box during resize prior to upload. Defaults to `false`. Has no effect if files are not resized.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="correct_orientation" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not the JPEG headers defining how an image should be rotated before being displayed is baked into the image prior to upload. Defaults to `true`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Actions

Options for editor actions when editing and formatting content.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="undo" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to undo recent edits. Undo is always enabled through standard OS-specific keyboard shortcuts.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="redo" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to redo recent edits undone with `undo`. Redo is always enabled through standard OS-specific keyboard shortcuts.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="removeformat" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables the control to remove formatting from text. Applies to formatting from `bold`, `italic`, `underline`, `strike`, `subscript`, and `superscript`. Does not remove other styles or formatting.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="copyformatting" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to copy formatting from text to other text. Only applies to formatting from `bold`, `italic`, `underline`, `strike`, `subscript`, and `superscript`. Does not copy other styles or formatting.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Paths

These paths control where new asset files are uploaded to. They also set the default path when choosing existing images, and linking to existing files.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. If unset, the paths default to those configured in the [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/). The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).

    Available for `_editables.link`, `_editables.text`, `_editables.image`,`_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Styles and alignment

Add predefined styles in plain CSS for your clients and team members to use in the Visual Editor and Content Editor.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="styles" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a drop down menu for editors to style selected text or blocks or text. Styles are the combination of an element and class name. The value for this option is the path (either source or build output) to the CSS file containing the styles.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="left" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to left align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="center" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to center align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="right" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to right align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="justify" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to justify text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to justify the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

The `styles` CSS file can be either a source or output file. The source CSS file is used if both exist. In either case, it must contain plain CSS.

Selectors must specify an element and one class in order to be included in the styles drop down. Styles with incompatible selectors are applied to the editor, but not shown as options.

The alignment classes for `left`, `right`, `center` and `justify` must be defined in the `styles` CSS file to give the editor access to those styles.

<comp.CodeBlock language="css" source="css/editor.css">
```
/* Can be applied to blocks of content */
p.callout {
  margin: 10px;
  border: 1px solid #f5f5f5;
  background-color: #eee;
}

/* Can be applied to inline content */
span.big-blue-text {
  font-size: 2rem;
  color: blue;
}

/* Applied to content, excluded from style dropdown */
h2 {
  font-family: cursive;
}

/* Applied to content, excluded from style dropdown */
.align-left { text-align: left; }
.align-center { text-align: center; }
.align-right { text-align: right; }
.align-justify { text-align: justify; }
```
</comp.CodeBlock>
<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Custom styles in the *Visual Editor* require the same styles on your live site. If you don’t have the same styles on your live site, the class will be there but it won’t change the styling.
</comp.Notice>

Commit message:

Update nav and title for Configure rich text toolbars article

articles/configuring-toolbars.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2022-02-26 00:00:00 +0000'
title: Configure your rich text toolbars
nav_title: Configure rich text toolbars
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Set which actions are available to editors when editing content in CloudCannon
tags:
  - deditor
related_articles:
  - articles/introducing-the-content-editor.mdx
  - articles/introducing-the-visual-editor.mdx
related_links: []
---
Editable Regions are configured with the `_editables` option within the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). The following keys are available within `_editables`:

* `text` for simple block editable regions like (e.g. `<p>`)
* `block` for block editable regions (e.g. `<div>` or `<section>`)
* `link` for inline editable regions on `<a>` tags
* `image` for image editable regions (i.e. `<img>`)
* `content` for the main content section of the [Content Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-content-editor/).

Alternatively, you can configure options directly on the element with a JSON value in the `data-cms-options` attribute.

```html
<p class="editable" data-cms-options='{ "bold": true }'>
  ...
</p>
```

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
_editables:
  text:
    italic: true
  block:
    format: p h3
    undo: true
    redo: true
  content:
    blockquote: true
    bold: true
    format: p h1 h2 h3 h4 h5 h6 pre address div
    italic: true
    strike: true
    subscript: true
    superscript: true
    underline: true
    link: true
    bulletedlist: true
    indent: true
    numberedlist: true
    outdent: true
    code: true
    embed: true
    horizontalrule: true
    image: true
    table: true
    undo: true
    redo: true
    removeformat: true
    copyformatting: true
    styles: /css/editor.css
    left: align-left
    center: align-center
    right: align-right
    justify: align-justify
    image_size_attributes: true
    snippet: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Although this is example sets the options globally, you can set this on different scopes in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Notice>

<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="page.html">
```
<p data-cms-options='{"bold": true, "italic": true}'
  class="editable"></p>

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

### Formatting

Options for base text formatting.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="blockquote" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to wrap blocks of text in block quotes.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="bold" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to bold.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="format" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a drop down menu for structured text. Has options for `p`, `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`, `h6`, `pre`, `address`, and `div`. Set as space separated options, e.g. `format: p h1 h2`.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="italic" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to italicize selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="strike" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to strike selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="subscript" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to subscript.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="superscript" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to superscript.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="underline" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to underline selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="link" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to create hyperlinks around selected text.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### List controls

Options for managing text in lists and nested lists.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="bulletedlist" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert an unordered list, or to convert selected blocks of text into a unordered list.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="indent" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to increase indentation for numbered and unordered lists.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="numberedlist" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a numbered list, or to convert selected blocks of text into a numbered list.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="outdent" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to reduce indentation for numbered and unordered lists.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Block content

Options for adding media and full-width content elements.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="code" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to set selected text to inline code, and unselected blocks of text to code blocks.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="embed" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a region of raw HTML, including YouTube, Vimeo, Tweets, and other media. Embedded content is sanitized to mitigate XSS risks, which includes removing `style` tags. Embeds containing `script` tags are not loaded in the editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="horizontalrule" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a horizontal rule.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="image" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert an image. The image can be uploaded, existing or an external link.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="table" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert a table. Further options for table cells are available in the context menu for cells within the editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="snippet" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to insert snippets, if any are available.  See [Editing with Hugo Shortcodes](/documentation/articles/snippets-using-hugo-shortcodes/)/

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Image options

Options for images when enabled.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="image_size_attributes" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Instructs the editor to save `width` and `height` on the image elements added to this editable. This can [prevent pop-in](/documentation/articles/why-cloudcannon-injects-width-and-height-onto-images/) as a page loads. Defaults to `true`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="width" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the width of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="height" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the height of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="resize_style" type_markdown="String">
    Sets how uploaded image files are resized with a bounding box defined by `width` and `height` prior to upload. Defaults to `contain`. Must be `contain`, `cover` or `stretch`\:

    * `cover` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image covers the bounding box
    * `contain` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image fits inside the bounding box
    * `stretch` ignores aspect ratio and resizes the image to the bounding box

    Has no effect when selecting existing images, or if `width` and `height` are not set.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="mime_type" type_markdown="String">
    Sets what format the image is converted to prior to upload. The extension of the file is updated to match. Defaults to keeping the mime type of the uploaded file. Must be one of `image/jpeg` or `image/png`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="expandable" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not images can be upscaled to fit the bounding box during resize prior to upload. Defaults to `false`. Has no effect if files are not resized.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="correct_orientation" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not the JPEG headers defining how an image should be rotated before being displayed is baked into the image prior to upload. Defaults to `true`.

    Available for `_editables.image`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Actions

Options for editor actions when editing and formatting content.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="undo" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to undo recent edits. Undo is always enabled through standard OS-specific keyboard shortcuts.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="redo" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to redo recent edits undone with `undo`. Redo is always enabled through standard OS-specific keyboard shortcuts.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="removeformat" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables the control to remove formatting from text. Applies to formatting from `bold`, `italic`, `underline`, `strike`, `subscript`, and `superscript`. Does not remove other styles or formatting.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="copyformatting" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enables a control to copy formatting from text to other text. Only applies to formatting from `bold`, `italic`, `underline`, `strike`, `subscript`, and `superscript`. Does not copy other styles or formatting.

    Available for `_editables.text`, `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Paths

These paths control where new asset files are uploaded to. They also set the default path when choosing existing images, and linking to existing files.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. If unset, the paths default to those configured in the [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/). The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).

    Available for `_editables.link`, `_editables.text`, `_editables.image`,`_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Styles and alignment

Add predefined styles in plain CSS for your clients and team members to use in the Visual Editor and Content Editor.

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="styles" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a drop down menu for editors to style selected text or blocks or text. Styles are the combination of an element and class name. The value for this option is the path (either source or build output) to the CSS file containing the styles.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="left" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to left align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="center" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to center align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="right" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to right align text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to align the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="justify" type_markdown="String">
    Enables a control to justify text by toggling a class name for a block of text. The value is the class name the editor should add to justify the text. The styles for this class need to be listed in the `styles` file to take effect outside of the Visual Editor.

    Available for `_editables.block` and `_editables.content`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

The `styles` CSS file can be either a source or output file. The source CSS file is used if both exist. In either case, it must contain plain CSS.

Selectors must specify an element and one class in order to be included in the styles drop down. Styles with incompatible selectors are applied to the editor, but not shown as options.

The alignment classes for `left`, `right`, `center` and `justify` must be defined in the `styles` CSS file to give the editor access to those styles.

<comp.CodeBlock language="css" source="css/editor.css">
```
/* Can be applied to blocks of content */
p.callout {
  margin: 10px;
  border: 1px solid #f5f5f5;
  background-color: #eee;
}

/* Can be applied to inline content */
span.big-blue-text {
  font-size: 2rem;
  color: blue;
}

/* Applied to content, excluded from style dropdown */
h2 {
  font-family: cursive;
}

/* Applied to content, excluded from style dropdown */
.align-left { text-align: left; }
.align-center { text-align: center; }
.align-right { text-align: right; }
.align-justify { text-align: justify; }
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Custom styles in the *Visual Editor* require the same styles on your live site. If you don’t have the same styles on your live site, the class will be there but it won’t change the styling.
</comp.Notice>
