articles/configure-a-404-page.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 675e4636-c318-49a9-b5a4-9764180b57d9
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Configure a 404 page
nav_title: Configure a 404 page
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Configure a helpful, branded 404 page when a visitor requests a page that
  cannot be found.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Hosting
  - Routing
tags:
  - Hosting
  - Sites
  - Guides
related_articles:
related_links:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This method for configuring a 404 page is only available for Sites [hosted through CloudCannon](/documentation/articles/what-is-web-hosting/#hosting-on-cloud-cannon). If you host your Site externally, or use CloudCannon in [Headless Mode](/documentation/articles/what-is-headless-mode/), these instructions will not work.
</comp.Notice>

A "404 page" is the webpage shown to visitors when the web server cannot find the content for the URL they requested, named after the [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) `404 Not Found`. A web server may be unable to find a page's content because:

* The URL is incorrect.
* The content has been deleted from the website or moved to a different URL.

By default, visitors will see a simple 404 page when their browser cannot find a URL from a Site hosted on CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/hosting/configure-a-404-page/2025-01/CloudCannon-Documentation-404-Page.png" alt="A screenshot of CloudCannon's default 404 page." title="CloudCannon's Default 404 Page" type="screenshot"/>

We recommend creating a dedicated 404 page that matches your Site branding and provides helpful resources when your users get lost.

To redirect visitors to a custom 404 page:

1. Create a file called `404.html` and add the content you want CloudCannon to serve.
2. Save your page to your Site. We recommend saving it in the same place as other important pages (e.g., "Home" or "About").
3. Navigate to the `routing.json` file within your `.cloudcannon` folder using the *File browser*, or create one if you have not done so.
4. Create an entry within the `routes` array with the subkeys `from`, `to`, `status`, and `forced`.
5. Set `from` to a REGEX string that captures all URLs (e.g., `/.*`), `to` to the path of your 404 page, `status` to `404`, and `forced` to `false`.
6. Save your changes.

After a successful build, CloudCannon will redirect visitors to `404.html` when their browser cannot find a page on your website.

It is important to set `forced` to `false`, as this configuration option determines whether the redirect rule should take priority over any existing page content. By setting this key to `false`, CloudCannon will only serve our 404 page content for URLs that match the `from` REGEX string if the browser cannot find a page's content.

For a complete list of options available in the `routing.json` file, please read our [routing reference](/documentation/articles/routing-reference/) documentation.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Set the permalink of your page to /404.html if you are using Jekyll and non-default permalinks.
</comp.Notice>

If you would prefer, you can also configure your `routing.json` file using your local development environment.

Here is an example of what your 404 redirect should look like:

<comp.CodeBlock language="json" source="routing.json">
```

{
  "routes": [
    {
      "from": "/.*",
      "to": "/404.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    }
  ]
}

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

Most Sites only need one 404 page, but you can create as many 404 redirects as required by configuring a more specific `from` URL. For more generic information, please read our documentation on [configuring custom routing](/documentation/articles/configure-custom-routing/).

<comp.CodeBlock language="json" source="routing.json">
```

{
  "routes": [
    {
      "from": "/.*",
      "to": "/404.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    },
    {
      "from": "/blog/.*",
      "to": "/404-blog.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    }
  ]
}

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

Commit message:

change browser to web server

articles/configure-a-404-page.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 675e4636-c318-49a9-b5a4-9764180b57d9
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Configure a 404 page
nav_title: Configure a 404 page
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Configure a helpful, branded 404 page when a visitor requests a page that
  cannot be found.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Hosting
  - Routing
tags:
  - Hosting
  - Sites
  - Guides
related_articles:
related_links:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This method for configuring a 404 page is only available for Sites [hosted through CloudCannon](/documentation/articles/what-is-web-hosting/#hosting-on-cloud-cannon). If you host your Site externally, or use CloudCannon in [Headless Mode](/documentation/articles/what-is-headless-mode/), these instructions will not work.
</comp.Notice>

A "404 page" is the webpage shown to visitors when the web server cannot find the content for the URL they requested, named after the [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) `404 Not Found`. A web server may be unable to find a page's content because:

* The URL is incorrect.
* The content has been deleted from the website or moved to a different URL.

By default, visitors will see a simple 404 page when the web server cannot find a URL from a Site hosted on CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/hosting/configure-a-404-page/2025-01/CloudCannon-Documentation-404-Page.png" alt="A screenshot of CloudCannon's default 404 page." title="CloudCannon's Default 404 Page" type="screenshot"/>

We recommend creating a dedicated 404 page that matches your Site branding and provides helpful resources when your users get lost.

To redirect visitors to a custom 404 page:

1. Create a file called `404.html` and add the content you want CloudCannon to serve.
2. Save your page to your Site. We recommend saving it in the same place as other important pages (e.g., "Home" or "About").
3. Navigate to the `routing.json` file within your `.cloudcannon` folder using the *File browser*, or create one if you have not done so.
4. Create an entry within the `routes` array with the subkeys `from`, `to`, `status`, and `forced`.
5. Set `from` to a REGEX string that captures all URLs (e.g., `/.*`), `to` to the path of your 404 page, `status` to `404`, and `forced` to `false`.
6. Save your changes.

After a successful build, CloudCannon will redirect visitors to `404.html` when the web server cannot find a page on your website.

It is important to set `forced` to `false`, as this configuration option determines whether the redirect rule should take priority over any existing page content. By setting this key to `false`, CloudCannon will only serve our 404 page content for URLs that match the `from` REGEX string if the web server cannot find a page's content.

For a complete list of options available in the `routing.json` file, please read our [routing reference](/documentation/articles/routing-reference/) documentation.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Set the permalink of your page to /404.html if you are using Jekyll and non-default permalinks.
</comp.Notice>

If you would prefer, you can also configure your `routing.json` file using your local development environment.

Here is an example of what your 404 redirect should look like:

<comp.CodeBlock language="json" source="routing.json">
```

{
  "routes": [
    {
      "from": "/.*",
      "to": "/404.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    }
  ]
}

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

Most Sites only need one 404 page, but you can create as many 404 redirects as required by configuring a more specific `from` URL. For more generic information, please read our documentation on [configuring custom routing](/documentation/articles/configure-custom-routing/).

<comp.CodeBlock language="json" source="routing.json">
```

{
  "routes": [
    {
      "from": "/.*",
      "to": "/404.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    },
    {
      "from": "/blog/.*",
      "to": "/404-blog.html",
      "status": 404,
      "forced": false
    }
  ]
}

```
</comp.CodeBlock>
