articles/configure-sso-saml.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a01c2606-bd15-4d5e-877f-1018cb6e2f72
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Configure SSO/SAML
nav_title: Configure SSO/SAML
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using
  CloudCannon with SAML.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Organizations
  - SSO/SAML
tags:
  - Organizations
  - Authentication
  - Sharing
  - Guides
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our <a href="/pricing/" rel="noreferrer">Enterprise plan</a>. Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using CloudCannon with SAML.

CloudCannon is set up as a Service Provider (SP) to allow Single Sign On (SSO) for your Organization. To use this feature, you need to be on our enterprise plan and already have your own Identity Provider (IdP).

## Configuring SAML

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  SAML can be a tricky thing to configure with only one end of debugging. If you would prefer manual assistance with setting up, please contact support.
</comp.Notice>

To configure SAML with your IdP you will need the following details:

* SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)
* Issuer
* X.509 Certificate

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  The issuer is configurable to allow multiple organizations from the same IdP. It must start with cloudcannon.com/. Leaving this blank will configure it as cloudcannon.com.
</comp.Notice>

To add these details:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *SAML*
2. Fill in all of the fields available and submit the form

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-2-details.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Once configured, you will get a screen defining any information you will need. If you require more information than displayed, please [contact support](mailto:support@cloudcannon.com).

Commit message:

Add first half copy "SSO SAML"

articles/configure-sso-saml.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a01c2606-bd15-4d5e-877f-1018cb6e2f72
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Configure SSO/SAML
nav_title: Configure SSO/SAML
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using
  CloudCannon with SAML.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Organizations
  - SSO/SAML
tags:
  - Organizations
  - Authentication
  - Sharing
  - Guides
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our <a href="/pricing/" rel="noreferrer">Enterprise plan</a>. Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

To set up SSO/SAML, you will need to copy data from CloudCannon to your Identity Provider and vice versa.

You must also identify which [Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) for new team members should be added to. This can be a [default](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/) or [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/). CloudCannon will add new team members to this Permission Group if they join your Organization through SSO login rather than the CloudCannon email invitation link.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  SAML can be tricky to configure. If you need assistance setting-up SSO/SAML, please don’t hesitate to contact our [support team](/support/).
</comp.Notice>

## Configure your Identity Provider

To configure your Identity Provider software:

1. Navigate to the *Single Sign-On* page under *Org settings*.
2. Copy the *Login URL* and *Consume URL (SSO URL)* links and enter them into your Identity Provider.
3. Your Identity Provider will provide you with the details for *SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)*, I*ssuer Suffix* (must begin with “cloudcannon.com/”), *Name ID Format*, *Authn Context*, and *X.509 Certificate*. Copy these details or download the XML file provided.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

## Configure SAML

To configure SAML:

1. Navigate to the *Single Sign-On* page under *Org settings*.
2. Select the initial Permission Group for team members joining your Organization through SSO.
3. Enter the details for *SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)*, *Issuer Suffix* (must begin with “cloudcannon.com/”), *Name ID Format*, *Authn Context*, and *X.509 Certificate*. Alternatively, click the *Fill form using XML Metadata* button and upload your XML file.
4. Click the *Add Single Sign-On* button.

CloudCannon will provide additional details once you have set up SAML. Your identity provider may require these details.

## Manage your SAML

x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>
