articles/configure-sso-saml-with-okta.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ea8da660-6b58-4a07-870b-7fecfe106d7b
_created_at: 2024-05-01T16:39:39+12:00
title: Configure SSO/SAML with Okta
nav_title: Configure SSO/SAML with Okta
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn how to set up SSO/SAML for CLoudCannon with Okta.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Organizations
  - SSO/SAML
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Okta is a popular Identity Provider. To use Okta SAML with CloudCannon follow these instructions:

## Create app

Create a new SAML 2.0 application on Okta for CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-1-create-app.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML setup interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

## Configure Okta

Go to CloudCannon and open *Organization Settings* / *SAML*. Copy your Issuer and Consume URL. If you do not have a SAML option in your menu contact support to get this enabled.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML update interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Enter the Issuer and Consume URL information into Okta.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-3-copy.png" alt="Screenshot of OKTA SAML update page" title="" type="screenshot"/>

And confirm you’re using CloudCannon as an internal application.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-4-confirm.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML confirm screen" title="" type="screenshot"/>

## CloudCannon Configure

View the setup instructions for your newly created application on Okta.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-5-view.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML configuration interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Copy the Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL and X.509 Certificate.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-6-copy.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML Identity details" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Enter the Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL and X.509 Certificate information into CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-7-cc.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML interface with details updated" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Commit message:

Add Enterprise notice for SSO

articles/configure-sso-saml-with-okta.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ea8da660-6b58-4a07-870b-7fecfe106d7b
_created_at: 2024-05-01T16:39:39+12:00
title: Configure SSO/SAML with Okta
nav_title: Configure SSO/SAML with Okta
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn how to set up SSO/SAML for CLoudCannon with Okta.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Organizations
  - SSO/SAML
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our <a href="/pricing/" rel="noreferrer">Enterprise plan</a>. Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

Okta is a popular Identity Provider. To use Okta SAML with CloudCannon follow these instructions:

## Create app

Create a new SAML 2.0 application on Okta for CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-1-create-app.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML setup interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

## Configure Okta

Go to CloudCannon and open *Organization Settings* / *SAML*. Copy your Issuer and Consume URL. If you do not have a SAML option in your menu contact support to get this enabled.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML update interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Enter the Issuer and Consume URL information into Okta.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-3-copy.png" alt="Screenshot of OKTA SAML update page" title="" type="screenshot"/>

And confirm you’re using CloudCannon as an internal application.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-4-confirm.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML confirm screen" title="" type="screenshot"/>

## CloudCannon Configure

View the setup instructions for your newly created application on Okta.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-5-view.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML configuration interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Copy the Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL and X.509 Certificate.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-6-copy.png" alt="Screenshot of Okta SAML Identity details" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Enter the Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL and X.509 Certificate information into CloudCannon.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-7-cc.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML interface with details updated" title="" type="screenshot"/>
