articles/creating-an-azure-dam.mdx, before:

---
_uuid: "3c5c59e1-c552-4507-be50-c5e1d52b3fd7"
_created_at: "2022-04-07 05:13:01 +0000"
title: "Creating an Azure DAM"
nav_title: "Azure Blob Storage DAM"
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: Link your Azure DAM to your CloudCannon Organization
tags: []
related_articles: null
related_links: null
---

Adding a Digital Asset Manager (DAM) to your site enables you to store your images and other assets in an external service, separate from your content. DAMs improve site build times and allow you to reuse the same assets across different sites. With Azure Blob Storage and Azure CDN, you can host your own DAM while still managing your files directly from CloudCannon.

You will need an Azure account to use Blob Storage.

### Connecting your DAM to CloudCannon
Open your site settings in CloudCannon. Navigate to *Files* */* *Assets*. Under *Link DAM*, select **New DAM**.

Choose **Azure Blob Storage** as your DAM type and enter a name - this will be used to identify your DAM in CloudCannon.

Set *Base URL* to the domain name of your Azure CDN distribution or, if you chose to configure them, one of its alternate domain names.

Set *Container name* to the name of your container on Azure storage.

Enter your *Storage account name* and *Access key*.

Click **Authenticate**, to save and close the modal, then click **Link DAM**.

### Attach metadata to uploaded files

In the same settings, there is also an option to attach metadata to files when they are uploaded. This option only affects files uploaded after the setting is applied. You can have a file tagged with the email address of the user who uploaded it. This will appear under an `uploadedBy` key in the Azure metadata.

To enable this behaviour, you may need to update the "Allowed Headers" in your "Resource sharing (CORS)" settings in Azure. "Allowed Headers" needs to at least include `x-ms-meta-uploadedBy`.

Commit message:

Document new Content-Type header for Azure

articles/creating-an-azure-dam.mdx, after:

---
_uuid: "3c5c59e1-c552-4507-be50-c5e1d52b3fd7"
_created_at: "2022-04-07 05:13:01 +0000"
title: "Creating an Azure DAM"
nav_title: "Azure Blob Storage DAM"
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: Link your Azure DAM to your CloudCannon Organization
tags: []
related_articles: null
related_links: null
---

Adding a Digital Asset Manager (DAM) to your site enables you to store your images and other assets in an external service, separate from your content. DAMs improve site build times and allow you to reuse the same assets across different sites. With Azure Blob Storage and Azure CDN, you can host your own DAM while still managing your files directly from CloudCannon.

You will need an Azure account to use Blob Storage.

### Connecting your DAM to CloudCannon

Open your site settings in CloudCannon. Navigate to *Files* */* *Assets*. Under *Link DAM*, select **New DAM**.

Choose **Azure Blob Storage** as your DAM type and enter a name - this will be used to identify your DAM in CloudCannon.

Set *Base URL* to the domain name of your Azure CDN distribution or, if you chose to configure them, one of its alternate domain names.

Set *Container name* to the name of your container on Azure storage.

Enter your *Storage account name* and *Access key*.

Click **Authenticate**, to save and close the modal, then click **Link DAM**.

### Attach metadata to uploaded files

Under **Advanced Options**, there are options to attach metadata to files when they are uploaded. These options only affect files uploaded after the setting is applied. To enable these behaviour, you may need to update the "Allowed Headers" in your "Resource sharing (CORS)" settings in Azure.

You can have a file tagged with the email address of the user who uploaded it. This will appear under an `uploadedBy` key in the Azure metadata. Your Azure CORS "Allowed Headers" needs to include `x-ms-meta-uploadedBy` for this to succeed.

You can optionally attach an extra header X-Ms-Blob-Content-Type to indicate the mime-type of uploaded files to Azure. Check the `X-Ms-Blob-Content-Type` checkbox to enable this. Your Azure CORS "Allowed Headers" needs to include `x-ms-blob-content-type` for this to succeed.
