articles/create-a-global-configuration-file.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 486a3b70-ab6a-46d9-a018-40b905707eb3
_created_at: '2021-12-21 02:58:45 +0000'
title: Create a global configuration file
nav_title: Create a global configuration file
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Global configuration for your site is read from a file. The configuration is
  the mostly the same across SSGs with some minor differences.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - defining-your-collections
related_links: []
---

### What is a configuration file?

Global configuration files contain your global CloudCannon configuration and top-level values for the [configuration cascade](https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).

Configuration is set in one of the following supported file types. CloudCannon will search the root directory for the first matching file from this list.

* `cloudcannon.config.json`
* `cloudcannon.config.yaml`
* `cloudcannon.config.yml`

This file is stored in the root directory of your repository (i.e. `/cloudcannon.config.*`). Alternatively, you can specify a custom location in the *Editing* section of your site settings.

### Creating a configuration file

The [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) file is the heart of your integration with CloudCannon. You can create your configuration file locally or using the CloudCannon configuration GUI.
When creating a new site, CloudCannon will guide you through creating a configuration file. 

Here's an example file:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
# Use the given folder as the root for the site
# Collections will be relative to this path
source: src

# Determines the collections shown in the CMS sidebar
collections_config:
  people:
    path: 'content/people'
    name: Personnel
    _enabled_editors: ['data']
  posts:
    path: 'content/blog'
    # Configure inputs per collection
    _inputs:
      title:
        comment: Used for Blog SEO
  pages:
    path: 'content'
    glob:
      - "*.html"
    _enabled_editors: ['visual', 'data']

# Configure inputs across your site
_inputs:
  title:
    type: text
    comment: The title of your page

# Specify custom data for select and multiselect inputs
_select_data:
  colors:
    - Red
    - Green
    - Blue

# Generate data for select and multiselect inputs from data files
data_config:
  authors:
    path: data/authors.csv
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

### Options

Global configuration files have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="base_url" type_markdown="String">
    The subpath your output files are mounted at.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collections_config" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains definitions for your collections, the related sets of content files for your site grouped by folder. Entries are keyed by your collection key, and contain configuration specific to that collection. Read more about [defining your collections](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/) and the available configuration.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collection_groups" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Controls which collections are displayed in the site navigation and how those collections are grouped. Defaults to splitting all available collections between *Pages*, *Blogging* and *Data* groups. Read more about [configuring your navigation section](/documentation/articles/configure-your-site-navigation/#configurable-navigation-section).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="data_config" type_markdown="Object or boolean">
    Controls what data sets are available to populate [select and multiselect inputs](/documentation/articles/select-and-multiselect-inputs/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="file_config" type_markdown="Object">
    Provides scope to configure settings at a file level, without configuring a collection, or modifying files.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="editor" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for the default editor actions on your site. The only available option is `default_path`, which [sets what URL the editor opens from the dashboard](/documentation/articles/introducing-your-site-navigation/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Global paths to common folders. These are often automatically populated from your SSG, and not all paths are relevant to all SSGs. Each path is relative to `source`. The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `static` for the location of statically copied assets.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="source" type_markdown="String">
    Base path to your site source files, relative to the root folder of your site.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="source_editor" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for the behavior and appearance of the [Source Editor](/documentation/articles/configuring-code-editors/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="timezone" type_markdown="String">
    Timezone of your site in IANA format. Used by [date and datetime inputs](/documentation/articles/date-and-time-inputs/). Defaults to `Etc/UTC`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="markdown" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for various Markdown engines. See the [Configure your Markdown engine documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-markdown-engine/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="commit_templates" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Templates for commit messages when saving changes. See the [Configure your commit templates documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-commit-messages/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Configuration cascade options

Global configuration files are the base level for defining options in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/), allowing you to define these options here at a global scope.

Commit message:

Add callouts to legacy docs for significant changes

articles/create-a-global-configuration-file.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 486a3b70-ab6a-46d9-a018-40b905707eb3
_created_at: '2021-12-21 02:58:45 +0000'
title: Create a global configuration file
nav_title: Create a global configuration file
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Global configuration for your site is read from a file. The configuration is
  the mostly the same across SSGs with some minor differences.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - defining-your-collections
related_links: []
---

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
This documentation page is applicable only to Sites using Unified Configuration.  
For sites that have not yet migrated to Unified Configuration, [view this page on our legacy documentation site](https://legacy.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/).
</comp.Notice>

### What is a configuration file?

Global configuration files contain your global CloudCannon configuration and top-level values for the [configuration cascade](https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).

Configuration is set in one of the following supported file types. CloudCannon will search the root directory for the first matching file from this list.

* `cloudcannon.config.json`
* `cloudcannon.config.yaml`
* `cloudcannon.config.yml`

This file is stored in the root directory of your repository (i.e. `/cloudcannon.config.*`). Alternatively, you can specify a custom location in the *Editing* section of your site settings.

### Creating a configuration file

The [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) file is the heart of your integration with CloudCannon. You can create your configuration file locally or using the CloudCannon configuration GUI.
When creating a new site, CloudCannon will guide you through creating a configuration file. 

Here's an example file:

<comp.CodeBlock language="yaml" source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
# Use the given folder as the root for the site
# Collections will be relative to this path
source: src

# Determines the collections shown in the CMS sidebar
collections_config:
  people:
    path: 'content/people'
    name: Personnel
    _enabled_editors: ['data']
  posts:
    path: 'content/blog'
    # Configure inputs per collection
    _inputs:
      title:
        comment: Used for Blog SEO
  pages:
    path: 'content'
    glob:
      - "*.html"
    _enabled_editors: ['visual', 'data']

# Configure inputs across your site
_inputs:
  title:
    type: text
    comment: The title of your page

# Specify custom data for select and multiselect inputs
_select_data:
  colors:
    - Red
    - Green
    - Blue

# Generate data for select and multiselect inputs from data files
data_config:
  authors:
    path: data/authors.csv
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

### Options

Global configuration files have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="base_url" type_markdown="String">
    The subpath your output files are mounted at.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collections_config" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains definitions for your collections, the related sets of content files for your site grouped by folder. Entries are keyed by your collection key, and contain configuration specific to that collection. Read more about [defining your collections](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/) and the available configuration.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collection_groups" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Controls which collections are displayed in the site navigation and how those collections are grouped. Defaults to splitting all available collections between *Pages*, *Blogging* and *Data* groups. Read more about [configuring your navigation section](/documentation/articles/configure-your-site-navigation/#configurable-navigation-section).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="data_config" type_markdown="Object or boolean">
    Controls what data sets are available to populate [select and multiselect inputs](/documentation/articles/select-and-multiselect-inputs/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="file_config" type_markdown="Object">
    Provides scope to configure settings at a file level, without configuring a collection, or modifying files.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="editor" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for the default editor actions on your site. The only available option is `default_path`, which [sets what URL the editor opens from the dashboard](/documentation/articles/introducing-your-site-navigation/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Global paths to common folders. These are often automatically populated from your SSG, and not all paths are relevant to all SSGs. Each path is relative to `source`. The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `static` for the location of statically copied assets.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="source" type_markdown="String">
    Base path to your site source files, relative to the root folder of your site.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="source_editor" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for the behavior and appearance of the [Source Editor](/documentation/articles/configuring-code-editors/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="timezone" type_markdown="String">
    Timezone of your site in IANA format. Used by [date and datetime inputs](/documentation/articles/date-and-time-inputs/). Defaults to `Etc/UTC`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="markdown" type_markdown="Object">
    Contains settings for various Markdown engines. See the [Configure your Markdown engine documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-markdown-engine/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="commit_templates" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Templates for commit messages when saving changes. See the [Configure your commit templates documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-commit-messages/).
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

### Configuration cascade options

Global configuration files are the base level for defining options in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/), allowing you to define these options here at a global scope.
