articles/define-your-collections.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b0003c37-4144-4e36-b767-0cb63398f932
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Define your collections
nav_title: Define your collections
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Collections allow you to show groups of related content in the Site
  Navigation. Each collection corresponds to a folder in your site files.
  Navigating to a collection shows a preview of each file and allows your
  editors to see all the content at a glance.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - introducing-your-site-navigation
  - unlisting-files-in-a-collection
  - integrating-your-site
  - defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files
related_links:
---
Collections allow you to show groups of related content in the Site Navigation. Each collection corresponds to a folder in your site files. Navigating to a collection shows a preview of each file and allows your editors to see all the content at a glance.

You can define the collections themselves, change how you add new files, and change the way these files show with the configuration you set here.

## Configuration

Define collections and configuration in your [CloudCannon configuration file](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) under `collections_config`.

Here's a minimal configuration for two collections:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    path: content/posts
    url: '/posts/{category|slugify}/[slug].html'
    icon: event_available
  staff:
    path: content/staff_members
    disable_url: true
    icon: people
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Examples

Here are a number of examples demonstrating how to extend your base collection configuration.

Setting custom sort options:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    sort:
      key: surname
    sort_options:
      - key: surname
      - key: surname
        order: desc
      - key: start_date
        label: Longest employed first
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Changing how the collection file list previews files:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    preview:
      subtext:
        - key: role
      gallery:
        image:
          - key: profile_image
        fit: cover
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Adding descriptive text and an external link to documentation above the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    description: Collection of staff members.
    documentation:
      url: https://example.com/documentation
      text: Read the documentation here.
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Hiding certain files in the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    path: content/staff_members
    glob:
      - "**/*.yml"
      - "!secret.yml"
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Changing the options when adding a new item within the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Staff Member
        icon: person
      - name: Add Contractor
        schema: contractor
        icon: engineering
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Disabling adding items and folders, and preventing renaming, moving and deleting files within the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    disable_add: true
    disable_add_folder: true
    disable_file_actions: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

Collection configuration entries have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="add_options" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Changes the options presented in the *\+Add menu* in the collection file list. Defaults to an automatically generated list from `schemas`, or first file in that collection if no schemas are configured.

    [Read more about changing the default set of add options here](/documentation/articles/configure-the-add-button-in-collections/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="create" type_markdown="Object or string">
    The create path definition to control where new files are saved to inside this collection. Defaults to `[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md`.

    Read more details for `create` when [choosing where to create new files](/documentation/articles/set-the-path-for-new-files/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_add" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from adding new files in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_add_folder" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from adding new folders in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_file_actions" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from renaming, moving and deleting files in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="description" type_markdown="String">
    Text or Markdown to show above the collection file list.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="documentation" type_markdown="Object">
    Provides a custom link for documentation for editors shown above the collection file list. Contains the following fields:

    * `url` for the `href` value of the link (String, *required*).
    * `text` for the visible text used in the link (String). Defaults to `Documentation`.
    * `icon` for the icon displayed next to the link. Must be a Material Icon name. Defaults to `auto_stories`.

    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        documentation:
          url: "https://example.com/documentation/"
          text: Read more about your data collection
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="icon" type_markdown="String">
    Sets an icon to use alongside references to this collection. Must match [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to the processed value of `preview.icon` if set, then falls back to `wysiwyg` for pages, `event_available` for posts, `data_usage` for data, and `notes` otherwise.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="name" type_markdown="String">
    The display name of this collection. Used in headings and in the context menu for items in the collection. This is optional as CloudCannon auto-generates this from the collection key.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="url" type_markdown="String">
    Used to specify the output URL for files in the collection. This is used when opening the Visual Editor, or copying the output URL for a file in the CloudCannon interface.

    Strings are used as a template to build the URL. There are two types of placeholders available, file and data. Placeholders resulting in empty values are supported. Sequential slashes in URLs are condensed to one.

    File placeholders are always available:

    * `[path]` is the full path of the file, relative to `source`.
    * `[base_path]` is the path of the file excluding filename, relative to site `source`.
    * `[slug]` is the filename, excluding extension. Is an empty string if this results in "index".
    * `[filename]` is the filename, including extension.
    * `[ext]` is the last extension, including `.`.
    * `[relative_path]` is the full path of the file, relative to the collection `path`.
    * `[relative_base_path]` is the path of the file excluding filename, relative to the collection `path`.
    * `[full_slug]` is an alias for `[relative_base_path]/[slug]`

    Data placeholders are populated from front matter or data values in the file, and support a number of filters:

    * `{title}` is the `title` from inside the file.
    * `{id}` is the `id` from inside the file.
    * `{title|lowercase}` is `title` from inside the file, lower cased.
    * `{category|slugify}` is `category` from inside the file, slugified.
    * `{tag|slugify|uppercase}` is `tag` from inside the file, slugified, then upper cased.
    * `{date|year}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 4-digit year extracted.
    * `{date|month}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 2-digit month extracted.
    * `{date|day}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 2-digit day extracted.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="new_preview_url" type_markdown="String">
    Preview your unbuilt pages (e.g. drafts) to another page’s output URL. The Visual Editor will load that set preview URL and use the Data Bindings and Previews to render your new page without saving.

    For example `new_preview_url: /about/` will load the `/about/` URL on new or unbuilt pages in the Visual Editor.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_url" type_markdown="Boolean">
    By default, CloudCannon will attempt to discover URLs within a collection automatically. This can be disabled to ensure files in a collection never have an output URL assigned.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="path" type_markdown="String">
    The top-most folder where the files in this collection are stored. It is relative to `source`. **Each collection must have a unique path**.

    If the collection is automatically discovered (Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy only), **this is set for you**. Automatically discovered collections are only created if their paths are not used by a manually configured collection.

    If the collection is not automatically discovered (all SSGs excluding Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy), this is **required**.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="glob" type_markdown="Array of Strings">
    Applies glob filtering to this collection, relative to the path.

    Globs can be positive (e.g. `*.yml`), or negative (e.g. `!**/*.json`).

    Files will be included in the collection if they match any positive glob, and do not match any negative glob.
    If no positive globs are provided, all files will be included unless they match a negative glob.

    For example, to include all files in the `data` folder except for the `secret.yml` file:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '!secret.yml'
    ```

    To include only `.yml` files within the `data` folder or any nested folders:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '**/*.yml'
    ```

    To include only `.yml` files, except for the `secret.yml` file:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '**/*.yml'
          - '!secret.yml'
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="include_developer_files" type_markdown="Boolean">
    By default, CloudCannon excludes files that probably shouldn't be edited in a CMS, for example files like `README.md` or `package.json`.
    These files will be excluded even if globs are configured.

    Setting `include_developer_files` to `true` will include these files in the collection, assuming they aren't filtered out by any configured globs.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="Object">
    The preview definition for changing the way collection items are previewed across the editor.

    See the [preview options documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/) for detailed information on setting this option.

    You can also set `preview` for each [schema](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-schema/#options) in your collection.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.gallery" type_markdown="Object">
    Shows large image/icon preview per collection item. Has no default. See `preview` for details.

    * `preview.gallery.fit` defaults to `contain`, or `cover` for generated screenshots.
    * `preview.gallery.image` defaults to a generated screenshot for files with a matching file in the build output, otherwise the first top-level image-like data found.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the icon shown on each collection item. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to checking the `icon` key then falls back to the containing collection's `icon`.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is set, it will cover `icon` when loaded successfully.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the image shown per collection item. Defaults to checking the keys `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order, then falls back to finding any top-level image-like field in the collection item's data.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.

    If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.metadata" type_markdown="Array">
    Shows a list of items that can contain an image, icon and text per collection item. Has no default. See `preview` for details.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the supporting text per collection item. Defaults to the `url` key of the collection item, or the `date` key for blog-like collections.

    If set to `false`, no subtext is displayed.

    Subtext is hidden if text and subtext is the same. If there’s no text, subtext is used instead.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the main text shown per collection item. Defaults to checking the keys `name` and `title`, then falls back to the first text-like value found.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schemas" type_markdown="Object">
    The set of schemas for this collection. Schemas are used when creating and editing files in this collection. Each entry corresponds to a schema that describes a data structure for this collection.

    The keys in this object should match the values used for `schema_key` inside each of this collection's files. `default` is a special entry and is used when a file has no schema.

    [Read more about schemas and the available options](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-schema/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schema_key" type_markdown="String">
    The key used in each file to identify the schema that file uses. The value this key represents in each of this collection's files should match the keys in `schemas`. Defaults to `_schema`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="singular_name" type_markdown="String">
    Overrides the default singular display name of the collection. This is displayed in the collection add menu and file context menu.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sort" type_markdown="Object">
    Sets the default sorting for the collection file list. Defaults to the first option in `sort_options`, then falls back descending `path`. As an exception, defaults to descending `date` for blog-like collections. Contains the following fields:

    * `key` defines what field contains the value to sort on inside each collection item's data. **Required**.
    * `order` controls which sort values come first. Must be one of `asc`, `ascending`, `desc` or `descending`. Defaults to `ascending`.

    ```yaml
    key: name
    order: desc
    ```

    Selecting a sort order in-app from the available sort options stores that preference, taking priority over this option the next time the collection file list is opened.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sort_options" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Controls the available options in the sort menu. Defaults to generating the options from the first item in the collection, falling back to ascending `path` and descending `path`. Each option contains the following fields:

    * `key` defines what field contains the value to sort on inside each collection item's data. **Required**.
    * `order` controls which sort values come first. Must be one of `asc`, `ascending`, `desc` or `descending`. Defaults to `ascending`.
    * `label` is text to display in the sort option list. Defaults to generating a label from `key` and `order`.

    If set to `false` or an empty array, the sort menu is hidden. `sort` still applies here, supporting a fixed sort order.

    ```yaml
    sort_options:
      - key: name
      - key: age
        order: desc
        label: Oldest first
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="title" type_markdown="String">
    Alias for `name`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

Commit message:

Add callouts to legacy docs for significant changes

articles/define-your-collections.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b0003c37-4144-4e36-b767-0cb63398f932
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Define your collections
nav_title: Define your collections
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Collections allow you to show groups of related content in the Site
  Navigation. Each collection corresponds to a folder in your site files.
  Navigating to a collection shows a preview of each file and allows your
  editors to see all the content at a glance.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - introducing-your-site-navigation
  - unlisting-files-in-a-collection
  - integrating-your-site
  - defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files
related_links:
---

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
This documentation page is applicable only to Sites using Unified Configuration.  
For sites that have not yet migrated to Unified Configuration, [view this page on our legacy documentation site](https://legacy.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/).
</comp.Notice>

Collections allow you to show groups of related content in the Site Navigation. Each collection corresponds to a folder in your site files. Navigating to a collection shows a preview of each file and allows your editors to see all the content at a glance.

You can define the collections themselves, change how you add new files, and change the way these files show with the configuration you set here.

## Configuration

Define collections and configuration in your [CloudCannon configuration file](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) under `collections_config`.

Here's a minimal configuration for two collections:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    path: content/posts
    url: '/posts/{category|slugify}/[slug].html'
    icon: event_available
  staff:
    path: content/staff_members
    disable_url: true
    icon: people
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Examples

Here are a number of examples demonstrating how to extend your base collection configuration.

Setting custom sort options:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    sort:
      key: surname
    sort_options:
      - key: surname
      - key: surname
        order: desc
      - key: start_date
        label: Longest employed first
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Changing how the collection file list previews files:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    preview:
      subtext:
        - key: role
      gallery:
        image:
          - key: profile_image
        fit: cover
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Adding descriptive text and an external link to documentation above the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    description: Collection of staff members.
    documentation:
      url: https://example.com/documentation
      text: Read the documentation here.
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Hiding certain files in the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    path: content/staff_members
    glob:
      - "**/*.yml"
      - "!secret.yml"
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Changing the options when adding a new item within the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Staff Member
        icon: person
      - name: Add Contractor
        schema: contractor
        icon: engineering
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Disabling adding items and folders, and preventing renaming, moving and deleting files within the collection file list:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  staff:
    disable_add: true
    disable_add_folder: true
    disable_file_actions: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

Collection configuration entries have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="add_options" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Changes the options presented in the *\+Add menu* in the collection file list. Defaults to an automatically generated list from `schemas`, or first file in that collection if no schemas are configured.

    [Read more about changing the default set of add options here](/documentation/articles/configure-the-add-button-in-collections/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="create" type_markdown="Object or string">
    The create path definition to control where new files are saved to inside this collection. Defaults to `[relative_base_path]/{title|slugify}.md`.

    Read more details for `create` when [choosing where to create new files](/documentation/articles/set-the-path-for-new-files/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_add" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from adding new files in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_add_folder" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from adding new folders in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_file_actions" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Prevents users from renaming, moving and deleting files in the collection file list if `true`.

    Defaults to `true` for the Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy `data` collection in the base data folder only (data sub-folders act as non-output collections). Otherwise, defaults to `false`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="description" type_markdown="String">
    Text or Markdown to show above the collection file list.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="documentation" type_markdown="Object">
    Provides a custom link for documentation for editors shown above the collection file list. Contains the following fields:

    * `url` for the `href` value of the link (String, *required*).
    * `text` for the visible text used in the link (String). Defaults to `Documentation`.
    * `icon` for the icon displayed next to the link. Must be a Material Icon name. Defaults to `auto_stories`.

    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        documentation:
          url: "https://example.com/documentation/"
          text: Read more about your data collection
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="icon" type_markdown="String">
    Sets an icon to use alongside references to this collection. Must match [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to the processed value of `preview.icon` if set, then falls back to `wysiwyg` for pages, `event_available` for posts, `data_usage` for data, and `notes` otherwise.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="name" type_markdown="String">
    The display name of this collection. Used in headings and in the context menu for items in the collection. This is optional as CloudCannon auto-generates this from the collection key.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="url" type_markdown="String">
    Used to specify the output URL for files in the collection. This is used when opening the Visual Editor, or copying the output URL for a file in the CloudCannon interface.

    Strings are used as a template to build the URL. There are two types of placeholders available, file and data. Placeholders resulting in empty values are supported. Sequential slashes in URLs are condensed to one.

    File placeholders are always available:

    * `[path]` is the full path of the file, relative to `source`.
    * `[base_path]` is the path of the file excluding filename, relative to site `source`.
    * `[slug]` is the filename, excluding extension. Is an empty string if this results in "index".
    * `[filename]` is the filename, including extension.
    * `[ext]` is the last extension, including `.`.
    * `[relative_path]` is the full path of the file, relative to the collection `path`.
    * `[relative_base_path]` is the path of the file excluding filename, relative to the collection `path`.
    * `[full_slug]` is an alias for `[relative_base_path]/[slug]`

    Data placeholders are populated from front matter or data values in the file, and support a number of filters:

    * `{title}` is the `title` from inside the file.
    * `{id}` is the `id` from inside the file.
    * `{title|lowercase}` is `title` from inside the file, lower cased.
    * `{category|slugify}` is `category` from inside the file, slugified.
    * `{tag|slugify|uppercase}` is `tag` from inside the file, slugified, then upper cased.
    * `{date|year}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 4-digit year extracted.
    * `{date|month}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 2-digit month extracted.
    * `{date|day}` is `date` from inside the file, with the 2-digit day extracted.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="new_preview_url" type_markdown="String">
    Preview your unbuilt pages (e.g. drafts) to another page’s output URL. The Visual Editor will load that set preview URL and use the Data Bindings and Previews to render your new page without saving.

    For example `new_preview_url: /about/` will load the `/about/` URL on new or unbuilt pages in the Visual Editor.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="disable_url" type_markdown="Boolean">
    By default, CloudCannon will attempt to discover URLs within a collection automatically. This can be disabled to ensure files in a collection never have an output URL assigned.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="path" type_markdown="String">
    The top-most folder where the files in this collection are stored. It is relative to `source`. **Each collection must have a unique path**.

    If the collection is automatically discovered (Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy only), **this is set for you**. Automatically discovered collections are only created if their paths are not used by a manually configured collection.

    If the collection is not automatically discovered (all SSGs excluding Jekyll, Hugo and Eleventy), this is **required**.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="glob" type_markdown="Array of Strings">
    Applies glob filtering to this collection, relative to the path.

    Globs can be positive (e.g. `*.yml`), or negative (e.g. `!**/*.json`).

    Files will be included in the collection if they match any positive glob, and do not match any negative glob.
    If no positive globs are provided, all files will be included unless they match a negative glob.

    For example, to include all files in the `data` folder except for the `secret.yml` file:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '!secret.yml'
    ```

    To include only `.yml` files within the `data` folder or any nested folders:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '**/*.yml'
    ```

    To include only `.yml` files, except for the `secret.yml` file:
    ```yaml
    collections_config:
      data:
        path: data
        glob:
          - '**/*.yml'
          - '!secret.yml'
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="include_developer_files" type_markdown="Boolean">
    By default, CloudCannon excludes files that probably shouldn't be edited in a CMS, for example files like `README.md` or `package.json`.
    These files will be excluded even if globs are configured.

    Setting `include_developer_files` to `true` will include these files in the collection, assuming they aren't filtered out by any configured globs.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="Object">
    The preview definition for changing the way collection items are previewed across the editor.

    See the [preview options documentation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-card-previews/) for detailed information on setting this option.

    You can also set `preview` for each [schema](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-schema/#options) in your collection.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.gallery" type_markdown="Object">
    Shows large image/icon preview per collection item. Has no default. See `preview` for details.

    * `preview.gallery.fit` defaults to `contain`, or `cover` for generated screenshots.
    * `preview.gallery.image` defaults to a generated screenshot for files with a matching file in the build output, otherwise the first top-level image-like data found.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the icon shown on each collection item. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to checking the `icon` key then falls back to the containing collection's `icon`.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is set, it will cover `icon` when loaded successfully.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the image shown per collection item. Defaults to checking the keys `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order, then falls back to finding any top-level image-like field in the collection item's data.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.

    If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.metadata" type_markdown="Array">
    Shows a list of items that can contain an image, icon and text per collection item. Has no default. See `preview` for details.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the supporting text per collection item. Defaults to the `url` key of the collection item, or the `date` key for blog-like collections.

    If set to `false`, no subtext is displayed.

    Subtext is hidden if text and subtext is the same. If there’s no text, subtext is used instead.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the main text shown per collection item. Defaults to checking the keys `name` and `title`, then falls back to the first text-like value found.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schemas" type_markdown="Object">
    The set of schemas for this collection. Schemas are used when creating and editing files in this collection. Each entry corresponds to a schema that describes a data structure for this collection.

    The keys in this object should match the values used for `schema_key` inside each of this collection's files. `default` is a special entry and is used when a file has no schema.

    [Read more about schemas and the available options](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-schema/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schema_key" type_markdown="String">
    The key used in each file to identify the schema that file uses. The value this key represents in each of this collection's files should match the keys in `schemas`. Defaults to `_schema`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="singular_name" type_markdown="String">
    Overrides the default singular display name of the collection. This is displayed in the collection add menu and file context menu.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sort" type_markdown="Object">
    Sets the default sorting for the collection file list. Defaults to the first option in `sort_options`, then falls back descending `path`. As an exception, defaults to descending `date` for blog-like collections. Contains the following fields:

    * `key` defines what field contains the value to sort on inside each collection item's data. **Required**.
    * `order` controls which sort values come first. Must be one of `asc`, `ascending`, `desc` or `descending`. Defaults to `ascending`.

    ```yaml
    key: name
    order: desc
    ```

    Selecting a sort order in-app from the available sort options stores that preference, taking priority over this option the next time the collection file list is opened.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sort_options" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Controls the available options in the sort menu. Defaults to generating the options from the first item in the collection, falling back to ascending `path` and descending `path`. Each option contains the following fields:

    * `key` defines what field contains the value to sort on inside each collection item's data. **Required**.
    * `order` controls which sort values come first. Must be one of `asc`, `ascending`, `desc` or `descending`. Defaults to `ascending`.
    * `label` is text to display in the sort option list. Defaults to generating a label from `key` and `order`.

    If set to `false` or an empty array, the sort menu is hidden. `sort` still applies here, supporting a fixed sort order.

    ```yaml
    sort_options:
      - key: name
      - key: age
        order: desc
        label: Oldest first
    ```
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="title" type_markdown="String">
    Alias for `name`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>
