articles/define-your-data.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dd8a235e-cec2-4940-8990-e6eabfb82e5b
_created_at: '2022-01-11 15:13:40 +0000'
title: Define your data
nav_title: Define your data
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Defining data allows you to populate select and multiselect inputs. Each data
  set corresponds to a file or folder in your site files.
article_category:
article_topic:
tags: []
related_articles:
  - introducing-your-site-navigation
  - unlisting-files-in-a-collection
  - integrating-your-site
  - defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files
related_links:
---
Defining data allows you to populate [select and multiselect inputs](/documentation/articles/select-and-multiselect-inputs/). Each data set corresponds to a file or folder in your site files.

In the following example configuration there are two data sets:

  1. `authors` which is read from the contents of a single file
  1. `offices` which is read from the contents of each file in a directory

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
data_config:
  authors:
    path: data/authors.csv
  offices:
    path: data/offices
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Commit message:

Add callouts to legacy docs for significant changes

articles/define-your-data.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dd8a235e-cec2-4940-8990-e6eabfb82e5b
_created_at: '2022-01-11 15:13:40 +0000'
title: Define your data
nav_title: Define your data
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Defining data allows you to populate select and multiselect inputs. Each data
  set corresponds to a file or folder in your site files.
article_category:
article_topic:
tags: []
related_articles:
  - introducing-your-site-navigation
  - unlisting-files-in-a-collection
  - integrating-your-site
  - defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files
related_links:
---

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
This documentation page is applicable only to Sites using Unified Configuration.  
For Sites that have not yet migrated to Unified Configuration, [view this page on our legacy documentation site](https://legacy.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/define-your-data/).
</comp.Notice>

Defining data allows you to populate [select and multiselect inputs](/documentation/articles/select-and-multiselect-inputs/). Each data set corresponds to a file or folder in your site files.

In the following example configuration there are two data sets:

  1. `authors` which is read from the contents of a single file
  1. `offices` which is read from the contents of each file in a directory

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
data_config:
  authors:
    path: data/authors.csv
  offices:
    path: data/offices
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>
