articles/defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0448e0fa-5d7d-43d1-b482-70f2e6932f16
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Defining more ways to add new files
nav_title: Add options
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to create or change actions for the add menu in the collection file
  list.
tags:
  - editor
  - configuration
related_articles:
  - extending-in-app-navigation-with-editor-links
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
CloudCannon provides a good default set of actions in the *\+Add menu* in the collection file list. These actions are generated from [schemas](/documentation/articles/creating-collection-schemas/) configured for that collection. If there are no schemas, actions are generated based on the first file in that collection.

You can override these default actions with the `add_options` option when [defining your collections](/documentation/articles/defining-your-collections/).

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can make actions for the current collection, other collections, and external links.
</comp.Notice>

### Examples
Some example configurations are shown below:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Post
        editor: content
      - name: Add Draft
        editor: content
        collection: drafts
        schema: default
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    add_options:
      - name: New page
      - name: New contact page
        default_content_file: content/pages/contact.html
  people:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Staff Member
        schema: staff
      - name: Add Author
        icon: edit
        schema: author
        base_path: authors
    schemas:
      staff:
        path: schemas/staff.json
      author:
        path: schemas/author.json
  offices:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Office
        editor: data
      - name: Add Office Location
        icon: public
        href: "edit?editor=data&path=_data/office-locations.yml"
      - name: Open external link
        icon: search
        href: "https://www.example.com/"
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

For the `offices` collection, this will result in the following menu:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/editing-collections-add-options.png" alt="Screenshot of a collection with add options configured" type="screenshot-snippet" />

### Options
Each `add_options` entry has the following options:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="name" type_markdown="String">
    The text displayed for the menu item. Defaults to using `name` from the matching `schema` if set.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="icon" type_markdown="String">
    The icon next to the text in the menu item. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to using `icon` from the matching `schema` if set, then falls back to `add`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="href" type_markdown="String">
    The link that opens when the option is clicked. Can either be an external or internal link. If internal, the link is relative to the current site.

    If this is set, the `collection`, `editor`, `base_path` and `schema` options are ignored. Since this acts as an override, we recommend using those options directly in favor of this if possible.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="editor" type_markdown="String">
    The editor to open the new file in. Must be one of `content`, `data`, or `visual`. Defaults to an appropriate editor for new file's type if possible. If no default editor can be calculated, or the editor does not support the new file type, a warning is shown in place of the editor.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="base_path" type_markdown="String">
    Enforces a path for new files to be created in, regardless of path the user is currently navigated to within the collection file list. Relative to the `path` of the collection defined in `collection`. Defaults to the path within the collection the user is currently navigated to.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collection" type_markdown="String">
    Sets which [collection](/documentation/articles/defining-your-collections/) this action is creating a file in. This is used when matching the value for `schema`. Defaults to the containing collection these `add_options` are configured in.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schema" type_markdown="String">
    The [schema](/documentation/articles/creating-collection-schemas/) that new files are created from with this action. This schema is not restricted to the containing collection, and is instead relative to the collection specified with `collection`. Defaults to `default` if schemas are configured for the collection.

    Although useful, it's not required to configure schemas for the [initial contents of new files](/documentation/articles/defining-the-default-contents-of-new-files/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="default_content_file" type_markdown="String">
    The path to a file used to populate the initial contents of a new file if no schemas are configured. We recommend using schemas, and this is ignored if a `schema` is available.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

Commit message:

Rename "configure the add button in collections"

articles/defining-more-ways-to-add-new-files.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0448e0fa-5d7d-43d1-b482-70f2e6932f16
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Configure the Add button in collections
nav_title: Configure the Add button in collections
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to create or change actions for the add menu in the collection file
  list.
tags:
  - editor
  - configuration
related_articles:
  - extending-in-app-navigation-with-editor-links
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
CloudCannon provides a good default set of actions in the *\+Add menu* in the collection file list. These actions are generated from [schemas](/documentation/articles/creating-collection-schemas/) configured for that collection. If there are no schemas, actions are generated based on the first file in that collection.

You can override these default actions with the `add_options` option when [defining your collections](/documentation/articles/defining-your-collections/).

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can make actions for the current collection, other collections, and external links.
</comp.Notice>

### Examples
Some example configurations are shown below:

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  posts:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Post
        editor: content
      - name: Add Draft
        editor: content
        collection: drafts
        schema: default
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "javascript"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```
collections_config:
  pages:
    add_options:
      - name: New page
      - name: New contact page
        default_content_file: content/pages/contact.html
  people:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Staff Member
        schema: staff
      - name: Add Author
        icon: edit
        schema: author
        base_path: authors
    schemas:
      staff:
        path: schemas/staff.json
      author:
        path: schemas/author.json
  offices:
    add_options:
      - name: Add Office
        editor: data
      - name: Add Office Location
        icon: public
        href: "edit?editor=data&path=_data/office-locations.yml"
      - name: Open external link
        icon: search
        href: "https://www.example.com/"
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

For the `offices` collection, this will result in the following menu:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/editing-collections-add-options.png" alt="Screenshot of a collection with add options configured" type="screenshot-snippet" />

### Options
Each `add_options` entry has the following options:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="name" type_markdown="String">
    The text displayed for the menu item. Defaults to using `name` from the matching `schema` if set.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="icon" type_markdown="String">
    The icon next to the text in the menu item. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults to using `icon` from the matching `schema` if set, then falls back to `add`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="href" type_markdown="String">
    The link that opens when the option is clicked. Can either be an external or internal link. If internal, the link is relative to the current site.

    If this is set, the `collection`, `editor`, `base_path` and `schema` options are ignored. Since this acts as an override, we recommend using those options directly in favor of this if possible.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="editor" type_markdown="String">
    The editor to open the new file in. Must be one of `content`, `data`, or `visual`. Defaults to an appropriate editor for new file's type if possible. If no default editor can be calculated, or the editor does not support the new file type, a warning is shown in place of the editor.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="base_path" type_markdown="String">
    Enforces a path for new files to be created in, regardless of path the user is currently navigated to within the collection file list. Relative to the `path` of the collection defined in `collection`. Defaults to the path within the collection the user is currently navigated to.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="collection" type_markdown="String">
    Sets which [collection](/documentation/articles/defining-your-collections/) this action is creating a file in. This is used when matching the value for `schema`. Defaults to the containing collection these `add_options` are configured in.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="schema" type_markdown="String">
    The [schema](/documentation/articles/creating-collection-schemas/) that new files are created from with this action. This schema is not restricted to the containing collection, and is instead relative to the collection specified with `collection`. Defaults to `default` if schemas are configured for the collection.

    Although useful, it's not required to configure schemas for the [initial contents of new files](/documentation/articles/defining-the-default-contents-of-new-files/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="default_content_file" type_markdown="String">
    The path to a file used to populate the initial contents of a new file if no schemas are configured. We recommend using schemas, and this is ignored if a `schema` is available.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>
