articles/editing-objects-in-your-data.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: c1c1a5b4-f9d5-4a4f-a5f3-67043fc95a04
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Using object inputs to edit your data
nav_title: Object
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Object inputs in your data show as a button in the data editor. This button
  opens a new editor to the side, showing the inputs inside that object. This
  continues as you click into nested object inputs. Each object level has a back
  button to return to the parent scope.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
  - array-structures-reference
  - defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
Object inputs represent object data within the Data Editor. They are ideal for grouping related inputs, and hiding complicated or infrequently edited data.

By default, they appear as a button that opens a new level in the editor to the side, showing the inputs inside the object. This continues as you click into nested object inputs. Each object level has a back button to return to the parent scope.

Alternatively, object inputs can be configured to behave differently:

1. **Structured** object, a switchable button that can be set from one or more values. Configured with the `structures` option.
2. **Mutable** object, a list showing each entry. Each entry is shown as its own input, including nested objects. Configured with the `allow_create` option.

## Examples

Here are a number of examples demonstrating how to use and configure object inputs.

### Object

Object inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `object`, or for object data values.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Value convention">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
_inputs:
  seo:
    type: object
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

In the Data Editor, this example appears as a button with a preview of the data inside:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/object-link.png" alt="Screenshot of unopened object input field" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

Clicking that button opens a new level in the editor showing the inputs for the entries inside the object:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/object-open.png" alt="Screenshot of active Object input field" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

### Object with configured preview

An object input with configuration to adjust which data is used to generate the preview on the button.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json"]} source="Input configuration">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
_inputs:
  seo:
    type: object
    options:
      preview:
        text:
          - key: description
        subtext:
          - key: title
          - No title
        image: false
        icon: travel_explore
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Structured object

An object input with controls to remove the value, and then replace it with one of two predefined values.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
feature_section:
  image: /uploads/cat.png
  caption: Tabby cat jumping off a wooden fence.
_inputs:
  feature_section:
    type: object
    options:
      structures: _structures.gallery
_structures:
  gallery:
    values:
      - label: Image
        icon: image
        value:
          image:
          caption:
      - label: External link
        icon: link
        value:
          url:
          title:
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `structures` applies to the object, while `value_structures` applies to the entries of an object.
</comp.Notice>

### Mutable object

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

Adding a new entry clones the value from the previous entry, and prompts you to enter the new key. At least one entry must exist to clone from, otherwise this input is invalid. This input prevents you removing the last entry.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
staff:
  john:
    name: John Doe
    image: /images/john.png
    age: 28
  jane:
    name: Jane Doe
    image: /images/jane.png
    age: 34
_inputs:
  staff:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `allowed_keys` can be used in combination with subtypes and `value_structures` to control both the keys and the values for this object.
</comp.Notice>

### Mutable object with subtype

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

Adding a new entry creates an empty `time` input, and prompts you to enter the new key. This object can have no entries, since the type is configured for the entries. Object subtypes are configured using the `.*` selector.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
timeline:
  start_time: 9:00 am
  lunch_time: 12:00 pm
  snack_time: 3:00 pm
  home_time: 5:00 pm
_inputs:
  timeline:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
  timeline.*:
    type: time
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Mutable object with set keys

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

The keys available when adding new entries and renaming existing entries are limited to the `allowed_keys` list.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
menu:
  main:
    weight: 1
  footer:
    weight: 5
_inputs:
  menu:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
      allowed_keys:
        - main
        - footer
        - sidebar
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Mutable object with set values

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

When adding a new entry here, you are given the option of two predefined values: *Image* and *External Link*.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
gallery:
  cat:
    image: /uploads/cat.png
    caption: Tabby cat jumping off a wooden fence.
  dog:
    url: 'https://example.com/'
    title: Website all about dogs.
_inputs:
  gallery:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
      value_structures: _structures.grid_items
_structures:
  grid_items:
    values:
      - label: Image
        icon: image
        value:
          image:
          caption:
      - label: External link
        icon: link
        value:
          url:
          title:
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `value_structures` applies to the entries of an object, while `structures` applies to the object.
</comp.Notice>

## Options

Object inputs have the following options available within `options` inside an `_inputs` entry:

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allow_create" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Determines if entries can be added to the data within an object input. Setting this to `true` changes the appearance of the input, by listing entries as a sequential group with controls for adding, removing, renaming and reordering. Defaults to `false`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allowed_keys" type_markdown="Array or object">
    Defines a limited set of keys that can exist on the data within an object input. This set is used when entries are added and renamed with `allow_create` enabled. Defaults to `[]`.

    Has no effect if `allow_create` is `false`.

    If set as an array of strings, the strings are used as the available keys, and as labels during selection.

    If set as a single depth object with string values, the keys are the available keys, and the values are used as labels during selection.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    Set how an empty value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `object` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `{}` (default).
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value. This does not apply to TOML files.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="Object">
    The preview definition for changing the way data within an object input is previewed before being expanded. The options available for object inputs are:

    * `text`
    * `subtext`
    * `icon`
    * `image`

    See the [preview options documentation](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/) for detailed information on setting this option.

    If the input has `structures`, the `preview` from the structure definition is used instead.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      Object inputs now support the new `preview` option. [Read our migration guide](/documentation/articles/migrating-to-preview-options/) if you are still using the old options: `text_key`, `subtext_key`, `image_key` and `icon`.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the icon shown on the unopened input. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults checking the `icon` key, then falls back to `notes`.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is set, it will cover `icon` when loaded successfully.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the image shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.

    If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the main text shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to the first value found (prioritizing text-based values).

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the supporting text shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to listing the `label` of each input inside the object value.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.

    Subtext is hidden if text and subtext is the same. If there's no text, subtext is used instead.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    Provides data formats for value of this object. When choosing an item, team members are prompted to choose from [a number of values you have defined](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/). Has no default.

    If set as an object, the structures value is used directly.

    If set as a string, the structures value is fetched from the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). This allows you to define `_structures` elsewhere and reference it from here.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      This looks similar to, and shares same format as `value_structures`. However, `structures` applies to the object itself, and `value_structures` applies to the entries within the object.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="value_structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    Provides data formats when adding entries to the data within this object input. When adding an entry, team members are prompted to choose from [a number of values you have defined](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/). Has no default.

    Has no effect if `allow_create` is `false`.

    If set as an object, the structures value is used directly.

    If set as a string, the structures value is fetched from the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). This allows you to define `_structures` elsewhere and reference it from here.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      This looks similar to, and shares same format as `structures`. However, `value_structures` applies to the entries within the object, and `structures` applies to the object itself.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

Commit message:

Add note about allowed_keys cases

articles/editing-objects-in-your-data.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: c1c1a5b4-f9d5-4a4f-a5f3-67043fc95a04
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Using object inputs to edit your data
nav_title: Object
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Object inputs in your data show as a button in the data editor. This button
  opens a new editor to the side, showing the inputs inside that object. This
  continues as you click into nested object inputs. Each object level has a back
  button to return to the parent scope.
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
  - array-structures-reference
  - defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures
related_links:
  - name: Material Icons
    url: https://material.io/tools/icons/
---
Object inputs represent object data within the Data Editor. They are ideal for grouping related inputs, and hiding complicated or infrequently edited data.

By default, they appear as a button that opens a new level in the editor to the side, showing the inputs inside the object. This continues as you click into nested object inputs. Each object level has a back button to return to the parent scope.

Alternatively, object inputs can be configured to behave differently:

1. **Structured** object, a switchable button that can be set from one or more values. Configured with the `structures` option.
2. **Mutable** object, a list showing each entry. Each entry is shown as its own input, including nested objects. Configured with the `allow_create` option.

## Examples

Here are a number of examples demonstrating how to use and configure object inputs.

### Object

Object inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `object`, or for object data values.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Value convention">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
_inputs:
  seo:
    type: object
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

In the Data Editor, this example appears as a button with a preview of the data inside:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/object-link.png" alt="Screenshot of unopened object input field" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

Clicking that button opens a new level in the editor showing the inputs for the entries inside the object:

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/object-open.png" alt="Screenshot of active Object input field" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

### Object with configured preview

An object input with configuration to adjust which data is used to generate the preview on the button.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json"]} source="Input configuration">
```
seo:
  title: How to contact us
  image: /images/staff.png
  description: These are all the ways to contact us.
_inputs:
  seo:
    type: object
    options:
      preview:
        text:
          - key: description
        subtext:
          - key: title
          - No title
        image: false
        icon: travel_explore
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Structured object

An object input with controls to remove the value, and then replace it with one of two predefined values.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
feature_section:
  image: /uploads/cat.png
  caption: Tabby cat jumping off a wooden fence.
_inputs:
  feature_section:
    type: object
    options:
      structures: _structures.gallery
_structures:
  gallery:
    values:
      - label: Image
        icon: image
        value:
          image:
          caption:
      - label: External link
        icon: link
        value:
          url:
          title:
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `structures` applies to the object, while `value_structures` applies to the entries of an object.
</comp.Notice>

### Mutable object

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

Adding a new entry clones the value from the previous entry, and prompts you to enter the new key. At least one entry must exist to clone from, otherwise this input is invalid. This input prevents you removing the last entry.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
staff:
  john:
    name: John Doe
    image: /images/john.png
    age: 28
  jane:
    name: Jane Doe
    image: /images/jane.png
    age: 34
_inputs:
  staff:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `allowed_keys` can be used in combination with subtypes and `value_structures` to control both the keys and the values for this object.
</comp.Notice>

### Mutable object with subtype

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

Adding a new entry creates an empty `time` input, and prompts you to enter the new key. This object can have no entries, since the type is configured for the entries. Object subtypes are configured using the `.*` selector.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
timeline:
  start_time: 9:00 am
  lunch_time: 12:00 pm
  snack_time: 3:00 pm
  home_time: 5:00 pm
_inputs:
  timeline:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
  timeline.*:
    type: time
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Mutable object with set keys

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

The keys available when adding new entries and renaming existing entries are limited to the `allowed_keys` list.
No entries can be added once all `allowed_keys` are in use.
Entries with keys not included in `allowed_keys` can exist, but if removed/renamed, cannot be re-added.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
menu:
  main:
    weight: 1
  footer:
    weight: 5
_inputs:
  menu:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
      allowed_keys:
        - main
        - footer
        - sidebar
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Mutable object with set values

An object with entries shown in a list, with controls to add, remove, rename, and reorder.

When adding a new entry here, you are given the option of two predefined values: *Image* and *External Link*.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```
gallery:
  cat:
    image: /uploads/cat.png
    caption: Tabby cat jumping off a wooden fence.
  dog:
    url: 'https://example.com/'
    title: Website all about dogs.
_inputs:
  gallery:
    type: object
    options:
      allow_create: true
      value_structures: _structures.grid_items
_structures:
  grid_items:
    values:
      - label: Image
        icon: image
        value:
          image:
          caption:
      - label: External link
        icon: link
        value:
          url:
          title:
```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  `value_structures` applies to the entries of an object, while `structures` applies to the object.
</comp.Notice>

## Options

Object inputs have the following options available within `options` inside an `_inputs` entry:

<comp.DataReference>
 <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allow_create" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Determines if entries can be added to the data within an object input. Setting this to `true` changes the appearance of the input, by listing entries as a sequential group with controls for adding, removing, renaming and reordering. Defaults to `false`.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allowed_keys" type_markdown="Array or object">
    Defines a limited set of keys that can exist on the data within an object input. This set is used when entries are added and renamed with `allow_create` enabled. Defaults to `[]`.

    Has no effect if `allow_create` is `false`.

    If set as an array of strings, the strings are used as the available keys, and as labels during selection.

    If set as a single depth object with string values, the keys are the available keys, and the values are used as labels during selection.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    Set how an empty value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `object` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `{}` (default).
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value. This does not apply to TOML files.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview" type_markdown="Object">
    The preview definition for changing the way data within an object input is previewed before being expanded. The options available for object inputs are:

    * `text`
    * `subtext`
    * `icon`
    * `image`

    See the [preview options documentation](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/) for detailed information on setting this option.

    If the input has `structures`, the `preview` from the structure definition is used instead.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      Object inputs now support the new `preview` option. [Read our migration guide](/documentation/articles/migrating-to-preview-options/) if you are still using the old options: `text_key`, `subtext_key`, `image_key` and `icon`.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.icon" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the icon shown on the unopened input. Must match a [Material Icon](https://material.io/tools/icons/) name. Defaults checking the `icon` key, then falls back to `notes`.

    If set to `false`, no icon is displayed.

    If `image` is set, it will cover `icon` when loaded successfully.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.image" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the image shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to `thumbnail_image`, `thumbnail_image_path`, `image`, and `image_path` in that order.

    If set to `false`, no image is displayed.

    If no image is found, `icon` is displayed instead.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.text" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the main text shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to the first value found (prioritizing text-based values).

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="preview.subtext" type_markdown="Array, string or boolean">
    Controls the supporting text shown on the unopened input. Has no default, falls back to listing the `label` of each input inside the object value.

    If set to `false`, no text is displayed.

    Subtext is hidden if text and subtext is the same. If there's no text, subtext is used instead.
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    Provides data formats for value of this object. When choosing an item, team members are prompted to choose from [a number of values you have defined](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/). Has no default.

    If set as an object, the structures value is used directly.

    If set as a string, the structures value is fetched from the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). This allows you to define `_structures` elsewhere and reference it from here.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      This looks similar to, and shares same format as `value_structures`. However, `structures` applies to the object itself, and `value_structures` applies to the entries within the object.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="value_structures" type_markdown="String or object">
    Provides data formats when adding entries to the data within this object input. When adding an entry, team members are prompted to choose from [a number of values you have defined](/documentation/articles/defining-what-adds-to-an-array-with-array-structures/). Has no default.

    Has no effect if `allow_create` is `false`.

    If set as an object, the structures value is used directly.

    If set as a string, the structures value is fetched from the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/). This allows you to define `_structures` elsewhere and reference it from here.

    <comp.Notice info_type="info">
      This looks similar to, and shares same format as `structures`. However, `value_structures` applies to the entries within the object, and `structures` applies to the object itself.
    </comp.Notice>
 </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>
