articles/edit-a-team-members-site-sharing-permission-group.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: c0e02b73-f71d-4354-8fa8-8601f786390c
_created_at: 2024-04-26T21:45:40+12:00
title: Edit a team member's Site Sharing Permission Group
nav_title: Edit a team member's Site Sharing Permission Group
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn how to switch a team member's Permission Group for Site Sharing.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Site Sharing
  - Sites
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
There are two [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) available per Site for [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/). These have identical permissions to the [Technical Editors](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#technical-editors) and [Editors](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#editors) Groups except with a Site scope.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Only members of the default Permission Group [Owners](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#owners) can update a team member’s Site Sharing Permission Group.
</comp.Notice>

x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

Commit message:

Add copy "Edit Site Sharing PG"

articles/edit-a-team-members-site-sharing-permission-group.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: c0e02b73-f71d-4354-8fa8-8601f786390c
_created_at: 2024-04-26T21:45:40+12:00
title: Edit a team member's Site Sharing Permission Group
nav_title: Edit a team member's Site Sharing Permission Group
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn how to switch a team member's Permission Group for Site Sharing.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Site Sharing
  - Sites
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
There are two [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) available per Site for [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/). These have identical permissions to the [Technical Editors](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#technical-editors) and [Editors](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#editors) Groups except with a Site scope.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Only members of the default Permission Group [Owners](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/#owners) can update a team member’s Site Sharing Permission Group.
</comp.Notice>

To switch which Permission Group your team member belongs to:

1. Navigate to the *Site Sharing* page under *Site settings*.
2. Click on the member whose permissions you want to update. This will open the *Update team member Permission Group* modal.
3. Select the Permission Group to which you want to add the team member.
4. Click the *Update Group* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>
