articles/edit-a-custom-permission-group.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: e8558608-8bf3-4022-82e9-35536ace7337
_created_at: 2024-04-11T21:38:46+12:00
title: Edit a custom Permission Group
nav_title: Edit a custom Permission Group
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to edit custom Permission Groups for your Organization, including
  how to add, delete, and edit permissions.
article_category:
  - Instructions
tags:
  - permissions
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our [Team and Enterprise plans](/pricing/). Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always [happy to hear from you]().
</comp.Notice>

## Add a permission to a custom Permission Group

To add a permission to an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Click on the *Add permission* button at the bottom of the page. This will open the *Add a new permission* modal.
6. x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will add the new permission to your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically gain the new permission.

## Delete a permission from a custom Permission Group

To delete a permission from an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Identify the permission you want to delete and click on the *Context menu*.
6. x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will delete the permission from your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically lose the permission.

## Edit a permission in a custom Permission Group

To edit a permission in an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Identify the permission you want to edit and click on the *Context menu*.
6. x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will update the permission in your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically gain the updated permission.

Commit message:

Add instructions to "Add a permission to a PG"

articles/edit-a-custom-permission-group.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: e8558608-8bf3-4022-82e9-35536ace7337
_created_at: 2024-04-11T21:38:46+12:00
title: Edit a custom Permission Group
nav_title: Edit a custom Permission Group
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to edit custom Permission Groups for your Organization, including
  how to add, delete, and edit permissions.
article_category:
  - Instructions
tags:
  - permissions
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our [Team and Enterprise plans](/pricing/). Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always [happy to hear from you]().
</comp.Notice>

## Add a permission to a custom Permission Group

To add a permission to an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Click on the *Add permission* button at the bottom of the page. This will open the *Add a new permission* modal.
6. Select whether this permission is an [exception](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/#exceptions).
7. Select the scope for this permission. If you select Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain, you must also choose the target to that scope. Selecting a scope will automatically filter the resource tree.
8. Select the resources you want to add and what actions you want to allow for each resource (i.e., Read, Write, or Create).
9. Click the *Add permission* button.
10. Once you have added all the permissions, click the *Update group* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will add the new permission to your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically gain the new permission.

## Delete a permission from a custom Permission Group

To delete a permission from an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Identify the permission you want to delete and click on the *Context menu*.
6. x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will delete the permission from your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically lose the permission.

## Edit a permission in a custom Permission Group

To edit a permission in an existing [custom Permission Group](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/):

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the Permission Group you want to delete. This will open the *Permission Group* page.
4. Click on the *Settings* tab.
5. Identify the permission you want to edit and click on the *Context menu*.
6. x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will update the permission in your custom Permission Group. All members of that group will automatically gain the updated permission.
