articles/editing-markdown-files-in-the-visual-editor.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Editing markdown in the Visual Editor
nav_title: Markdown in the Visual Editor
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to edit your markdown files as they would appear on your live site,
  with CloudCannon.
tags:
  - markdown
  - visual editor
  - editing
related_articles:
  - introducing-the-visual-editor
related_links:
---
You can edit markdown files in the Visual Editor using an in-place Rich Text editor embedded on your page.

To do so, add the `data-cms-edit="content"` attribute to the relevant element on your site. For example:

<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="page.html">
```
<div data-cms-edit="content">
  {{ content }}
</div>
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

When encountering this attribute, CloudCannon will replace the children of the tagged element with the Content Editor, connected to the Markdown content of the opened file.

Commit message:

Add callouts to legacy docs for significant changes

articles/editing-markdown-files-in-the-visual-editor.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Editing markdown in the Visual Editor
nav_title: Markdown in the Visual Editor
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to edit your markdown files as they would appear on your live site,
  with CloudCannon.
tags:
  - markdown
  - visual editor
  - editing
related_articles:
  - introducing-the-visual-editor
related_links:
---

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
This documentation page is applicable only to Sites using Unified Configuration.  
For sites that have not yet migrated to Unified Configuration, [view this page on our legacy documentation site](https://legacy.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/editing-markdown-files-in-the-visual-editor/).
</comp.Notice>

You can edit markdown files in the Visual Editor using an in-place Rich Text editor embedded on your page.

To do so, add the `data-cms-edit="content"` attribute to the relevant element on your site. For example:

<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="page.html">
```
<div data-cms-edit="content">
  {{ content }}
</div>
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

When encountering this attribute, CloudCannon will replace the children of the tagged element with the Content Editor, connected to the Markdown content of the opened file.
