articles/edit-your-files.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7c05caba-6f91-45d0-81f6-1f372b4ee118
_created_at: 2023-12-01T14:49:31+13:00
title: Edit your files
nav_title: Edit your files
published: true
image: /uploads/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Learn how to edit your files in CloudCannon, use the editing interfaces, and
  find files with unsaved changes.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Editing in CloudCannon is as easy as opening a file in one of our in-browser editing interfaces.

CloudCannon supports four editing interfaces:

* [The Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-visual-editor/) — This interface offers an interactive preview of your site for editing directly onto the page.
* [The Content Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-content-editor/) — This interface offers a rich text editor useful for clean, distraction-free editing of content-heavy files.
* [The Data Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-data-editor/) — This interface offers a simple way to manage structured data and doubles as the sidebar in the Visual and Content Editors.
* [The Source Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-source-editor/) — This interface offers an in-browser code editor for minor changes.

Depending on your SSG and site configuration, you may only have access to a subset of these editing interfaces. An editing interface may not be available because:

* Some SSGs are incompatible with the Visual Editor (e.g., Docusaurus, MkDocs).
* Some permission levels cannot access the Source Editor (e.g., unavailable to [Editors or Clients](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/)).
* A Developer on your team has [restricted which editing interfaces are enabled](/documentation/articles/choosing-the-editors-for-each-file/) for a particular collection or schema.

To open a file in an editing interface, click on that file in the CloudCannon collection or file browser.

## Collaborate with your team

Editing in CloudCannon is collaborative, enabling your team to create content together. In each editing session, you and your team can edit multiple files across your site concurrently.

For each file, one person can edit the file while any number of people view their edits live. You can see who is *Editing* or *Viewing* a file in the top right of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Editing-Dropdown-Avatars.png" alt="A closeup of the UI in the CloudCannon editing interfaces, including save button, avatars, editing dropdown, and update status." title="UI elements in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

While *Editing*, all the changes you make to your file are visible to the rest of your team. While *Viewing*, you can interact with the file in read-only mode. You can switch between *Editing* and *Viewing* with the dropdown in the top right of the editing interface.

CloudCannon will remember any updates you make in-app — your content is safe if you need to switch the editing interface or which team member is editing a file.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Need to find the file a team member is working on? Click on their avatar to see a list of their open files.
</comp.Notice>

When you are done with your editing session, you can [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/) to see them live on your [test URL](/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/) or [custom domain](/documentation/articles/hosting-your-site-on-a-custom-domain/).

## File menu

File actions are in the *File menu* dropdown in the top left of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-File-Menu.png" alt="A screenshot of the File Menu in the top left of the editing interface." title="Editing interface File Menu" type="screenshot"/>

These actions include:

* Preview live site — open this file’s webpage on your [test URL](/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/) or [custom domain](/documentation/articles/hosting-your-site-on-a-custom-domain/).
* Open with — open this file in another editing interface.
* Open Collection — open the collection folder for this file.
* Open Source Folder — open the source folder for this file (not available to [Editors or Clients](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/)).
* File — general actions such as Publish to posts (Jekyll only), Move, Clone, Rename, and Download.
* Discard — discard any unsaved changes made to this file.
* Delete — mark this file for deletion next time you [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/).

You can also access some of these file actions in the CloudCannon browser using the context menu button at the top right of the [file card](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/collections/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-File-Context-Menu.png" alt="The collection browser shows a series of files, one with the Context Menu open from the top right of the file card." title="File Context Menu in the collection browser" type="ui-snippet"/>

## Site navigation and split-screen

You can toggle your *Site navigation* toolbar using the *Toggle Navigation* button in the top left of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Toggle-Navigation-Button.png" alt="The toggle navigation button in the top left of the editing interface." title="Toggle navigation button in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can use the editing interface and browser simultaneously using split-screen. Toggle split-screen using the *Toggle Split-screen* button in the bottom left of the editing interface. Split-screen is only available on screens 1600px or wider.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Toggle-Splitscreen-Button.png" alt="The toggle split-screen button in the bottom left of the editing interface." title="Toggle split-screen button in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

## View changed files in your file browser

You can view which files have unsaved changes in the CloudCannon collection or file browser. Changed files will receive a *New*, *Edited*, or *Deleted* badge on the [file card](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/collections/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Unsaved-Changes-Badges.png" alt="A closeup of the collection browser showing the New, Edited, and Deleted badges on files with unsaved changes." title="Collection items with unsaved changes badges" type="ui-snippet"/>

* The *New* badge indicates that this [file was recently uploaded](/documentation/articles/add-or-delete-files/).
* The *Edited* badge indicates that this file’s content has been updated.
* The *Deleted* badge indicates that you or a team member have marked this file for deletion. Saving your site will delete this file. You can [restore deleted files](/documentation/articles/add-or-delete-files/) any time before you [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/) using the context menu in the top right of the file card.

Renamed files will appear twice; the file with the new name will have a *New* badge, and the file with the old name will have a *Deleted* badge.

Commit message:

Modified file badges section to prevent repetition

articles/edit-your-files.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7c05caba-6f91-45d0-81f6-1f372b4ee118
_created_at: 2023-12-01T14:49:31+13:00
title: Edit your files
nav_title: Edit your files
published: true
image: /uploads/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Learn how to edit your files in CloudCannon, use the editing interfaces, and
  find files with unsaved changes.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Editing in CloudCannon is as easy as opening a file in one of our in-browser editing interfaces.

CloudCannon supports four editing interfaces:

* [The Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-visual-editor/) — This interface offers an interactive preview of your site for editing directly onto the page.
* [The Content Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-content-editor/) — This interface offers a rich text editor useful for clean, distraction-free editing of content-heavy files.
* [The Data Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-data-editor/) — This interface offers a simple way to manage structured data and doubles as the sidebar in the Visual and Content Editors.
* [The Source Editor](/documentation/articles/introducing-the-source-editor/) — This interface offers an in-browser code editor for minor changes.

Depending on your SSG and site configuration, you may only have access to a subset of these editing interfaces. An editing interface may not be available because:

* Some SSGs are incompatible with the Visual Editor (e.g., Docusaurus, MkDocs).
* Some permission levels cannot access the Source Editor (e.g., unavailable to [Editors or Clients](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/)).
* A Developer on your team has [restricted which editing interfaces are enabled](/documentation/articles/choosing-the-editors-for-each-file/) for a particular collection or schema.

To open a file in an editing interface, click on that file in the CloudCannon collection or file browser.

## Collaborate with your team

Editing in CloudCannon is collaborative, enabling your team to create content together. In each editing session, you and your team can edit multiple files across your site concurrently.

For each file, one person can edit the file while any number of people view their edits live. You can see who is *Editing* or *Viewing* a file in the top right of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Editing-Dropdown-Avatars.png" alt="A closeup of the UI in the CloudCannon editing interfaces, including save button, avatars, editing dropdown, and update status." title="UI elements in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

While *Editing*, all the changes you make to your file are visible to the rest of your team. While *Viewing*, you can interact with the file in read-only mode. You can switch between *Editing* and *Viewing* with the dropdown in the top right of the editing interface.

CloudCannon will remember any updates you make in-app — your content is safe if you need to switch the editing interface or which team member is editing a file.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Need to find the file a team member is working on? Click on their avatar to see a list of their open files.
</comp.Notice>

When you are done with your editing session, you can [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/) to see them live on your [test URL](/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/) or [custom domain](/documentation/articles/hosting-your-site-on-a-custom-domain/).

## File menu

File actions are in the *File menu* dropdown in the top left of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-File-Menu.png" alt="A screenshot of the File Menu in the top left of the editing interface." title="Editing interface File Menu" type="screenshot"/>

These actions include:

* Preview live site — open this file’s webpage on your [test URL](/documentation/articles/viewing-your-site-on-a-testing-domain/) or [custom domain](/documentation/articles/hosting-your-site-on-a-custom-domain/).
* Open with — open this file in another editing interface.
* Open Collection — open the collection folder for this file.
* Open Source Folder — open the source folder for this file (not available to [Editors or Clients](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/)).
* File — general actions such as Publish to posts (Jekyll only), Move, Clone, Rename, and Download.
* Discard — discard any unsaved changes made to this file.
* Delete — mark this file for deletion next time you [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/).

You can also access some of these file actions in the CloudCannon browser using the context menu button at the top right of the [file card](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/collections/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-File-Context-Menu.png" alt="The collection browser shows a series of files, one with the Context Menu open from the top right of the file card." title="File Context Menu in the collection browser" type="ui-snippet"/>

## Site navigation and split-screen

You can toggle your *Site navigation* toolbar using the *Toggle Navigation* button in the top left of the editing interface.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Toggle-Navigation-Button.png" alt="The toggle navigation button in the top left of the editing interface." title="Toggle navigation button in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can use the editing interface and browser simultaneously using split-screen. Toggle split-screen using the *Toggle Split-screen* button in the bottom left of the editing interface. Split-screen is only available on screens 1600px or wider.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/editing-interfaces/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Toggle-Splitscreen-Button.png" alt="The toggle split-screen button in the bottom left of the editing interface." title="Toggle split-screen button in the editing interface" type="ui-snippet"/>

## File badges

Changed files will receive a *New*, *Edited*, or *Deleted* badge to indicate the type of unsaved changes.

These file badges appear on the [file card](/documentation/articles/changing-how-cards-preview-your-data/) in the CloudCannon collection or file browser, and in the *Review changes* modal when you [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/collections/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Unsaved-Changes-Badges.png" alt="A closeup of the collection browser showing the New, Edited, and Deleted badges on files with unsaved changes." title="Collection items with unsaved changes badges" type="ui-snippet"/>

* The *New* badge indicates that this [file was recently uploaded](/documentation/articles/add-or-delete-files/).
* The *Edited* badge indicates that this file’s content has been updated.
* The *Deleted* badge indicates that you or a team member have marked this file for deletion. Saving your site will delete this file. You can [restore deleted files](/documentation/articles/add-or-delete-files/) any time before you [save your changes](/documentation/articles/save-your-changes/) using the context menu in the top right of the file card.

Renamed files will appear twice; the file with the new name will have a *New* badge, and the file with the old name will have a *Deleted* badge.
