articles/enable-headless-mode.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: cccfaa53-f9f0-4692-81e9-dec08505cf9d
_created_at: 2024-09-25T17:18:05+12:00
title: Enable Headless Mode
nav_title: Enable Headless Mode
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable Headless Mode on your CloudCannon Site to disable hosting
  and builds.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Headless Mode
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Headless Mode disables hosting and building for your Site.

To enable Headless Mode on your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Details* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Select the *Headless* option under *Mode*.
3. Click the *Update Site* button.
4. Click the *Turn off hosting and builds* button on the confirmation modal.

CloudCannon will immediately take down your live Site and prevent any further builds.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/headless-mode/2024-09/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Details-Headless-Mode.png" alt="A screenshot of the Details page shows the Mode field with radio buttons for Hosted and Headless." title="The Site Details page" type="screenshot"/>

When your Site is in Headless Mode, CloudCannon will display a reduced set of pages in your *Site Settings*.

You can turn off *Headless Mode* at any time by selecting *Hosted* on the *Details* page under your *Site Settings*.

Commit message:

Add warning notice to Enable Headless Mode

articles/enable-headless-mode.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: cccfaa53-f9f0-4692-81e9-dec08505cf9d
_created_at: 2024-09-25T17:18:05+12:00
title: Enable Headless Mode
nav_title: Enable Headless Mode
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable Headless Mode on your CloudCannon Site to disable hosting
  and builds.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Headless Mode
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  Headless Mode is only available for Sites using Unified Configuration. For more information, please read our [Unified Configuration migration guide](/documentation/guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/).
</comp.Notice>

Headless Mode disables hosting and building for your Site.

To enable Headless Mode on your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Details* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Select the *Headless* option under *Mode*.
3. Click the *Update Site* button.
4. Click the *Turn off hosting and builds* button on the confirmation modal.

CloudCannon will immediately take down your live Site and prevent any further builds.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/headless-mode/2024-09/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Details-Headless-Mode.png" alt="A screenshot of the Details page shows the Mode field with radio buttons for Hosted and Headless." title="The Site Details page" type="screenshot"/>

When your Site is in Headless Mode, CloudCannon will display a reduced set of pages in your *Site Settings*.

You can turn off *Headless Mode* at any time by selecting *Hosted* on the *Details* page under your *Site Settings*.
