articles/enable-password-authentication.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Enable password authentication
nav_title: Enable password authentication
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable password authentication and require a password to visit
  your Site.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Authentication
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links:
---
Password authentication requires visitors to your Site to enter a password before they can view any content.

By default, CloudCannon serves a simple Login page when a visitor requests your URL.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/hosting/enable-password-authentication/2025-01/CloudCannon-Documentation-Password-Authentication-Login-Page.png" alt="A screenshot of the default Login page for a Site with Password Authentication enabled." title="The Login Page" type="screenshot"/>

To enable password authentication for your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Authentication* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Click on the *Authentication method* dropdown and select the *Password* option.
3. Click the *Switch to Password authentication* button to confirm your choice.
4. Add the password of your choice in the *Site Password* text field.
5. Click the *Update Site Password* button.

CloudCannon will now require visitors to your Site to enter this password to see its content.

<comp.DocShot docshot_key="CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Authentication-Password-Switch-Prompt" alt="A screenshot of the Authentication page shows the Switch to Password authentication button." title="The Authentication Page" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.DocShot docshot_key="CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Authentication-Password-Success" alt="A screenshot of the Authentication page shows a this Site has a password set." title="The Authentication Page" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  If you enable Password Authentication without setting a password, visitors will not be able to access your content. You can resolve this by setting a password or turning off Password Authentication.
</comp.Notice>

You can change the password for your Site at any time by entering a new password in the *Site Password* text field and clicking the *Update Site Password* button.

To disable password authentication, click on the *Authentication method* dropdown,  select the *None* option, and then click the *Switch to no authentication* button to confirm your choice.

## Configure a custom login page

You can customize the login page for your website by creating a `login.html` file. This file should be in the root directory of your output Site. Where this is in your Site repository will depend on your SSG (e.g., the root of the repository for Jekyll, the static folder for Hugo, etc.).

You can customize the `login.html` file to match your Site branding and provide helpful resources.

This page requires:

* A form input for `password`.
* A hidden from input for `username`.
* A `submit` input.

In the `login.html` file, CloudCannon requires a `<form>` element with the liquid variable `class="{{messageClasses}}"`. CloudCannon injects a class into the `{{messageClasses}}` liquid variable to change the content on the page as the user submits the form.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
                On Jekyll-generated pages, please add `raw` tags so Jekyll outputs the liquid variable correctly: `{% raw %}{{messageClasses}}{% endraw %}`.
</comp.Notice>

You can add custom message classes to communicate with your users when using your forms, such as error-handling messages and success notifications. CloudCannon highly recommends adding a `has-incorrect-login` message class.

* The `has-incorrect-login` message class warns visitors when they enter incorrect login details.

A form action is not required for this page.

Here is an example of a basic login page:

<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="login.html">
```

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Log in</title>
    <style>
      .incorrect-login-message {
        display: none;
      }

      .has-incorrect-login .incorrect-login-message {
        display: block;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Log in</h1>

    <form action="" method="post" class="{{messageClasses}}">
      <div class="incorrect-login-message">
        Incorrect password.
      </div>

      <label for="password">Password</label>
      <input id="password" type="password" name="password" autofocus>

      <input type="hidden" name="username" value="user">

      <input type="submit" value="Log in">
    </form>
  </body>
</html>

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  You may already have a `login.html` file if you are switching from [user account authentication](/documentation/articles/enable-user-account-authentication/) to password authentication. Make sure to update the contents of this file.
</comp.Notice>

Commit message:

add log out link to other docs

articles/enable-password-authentication.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 7db69808-3698-44b0-a1a7-920ec59dc61f
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Enable password authentication
nav_title: Enable password authentication
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to enable password authentication and require a password to visit
  your Site.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Authentication
tags: []
related_articles:
related_links:
---
Password authentication requires visitors to your Site to enter a password before they can view any content.

By default, CloudCannon serves a simple Login page when a visitor requests your URL.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/hosting/enable-password-authentication/2025-01/CloudCannon-Documentation-Password-Authentication-Login-Page.png" alt="A screenshot of the default Login page for a Site with Password Authentication enabled." title="The Login Page" type="screenshot"/>

To enable password authentication for your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Authentication* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Click on the *Authentication method* dropdown and select the *Password* option.
3. Click the *Switch to Password authentication* button to confirm your choice.
4. Add the password of your choice in the *Site Password* text field.
5. Click the *Update Site Password* button.

CloudCannon will now require visitors to your Site to enter this password to see its content.

<comp.DocShot docshot_key="CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Authentication-Password-Switch-Prompt" alt="A screenshot of the Authentication page shows the Switch to Password authentication button." title="The Authentication Page" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.DocShot docshot_key="CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Authentication-Password-Success" alt="A screenshot of the Authentication page shows a this Site has a password set." title="The Authentication Page" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  If you enable Password Authentication without setting a password, visitors will not be able to access your content. You can resolve this by setting a password or turning off Password Authentication.
</comp.Notice>

You can change the password for your Site at any time by entering a new password in the *Site Password* text field and clicking the *Update Site Password* button.

To disable password authentication, click on the *Authentication method* dropdown,  select the *None* option, and then click the *Switch to no authentication* button to confirm your choice.

CloudCannon uses cookies to determine whether a visitor is logged in (i.e., authenticated). Visitors can log out using the log-out link. For more information, please read our documentation on [allowing authenticated users to log out](/documentation/articles/allow-authenticated-users-to-log-out/).

## Configure a custom login page

You can customize the login page for your website by creating a `login.html` file. This file should be in the root directory of your output Site. Where this is in your Site repository will depend on your SSG (e.g., the root of the repository for Jekyll, the static folder for Hugo, etc.).

You can customize the `login.html` file to match your Site branding and provide helpful resources.

This page requires:

* A form input for `password`.
* A hidden from input for `username`.
* A `submit` input.

In the `login.html` file, CloudCannon requires a `<form>` element with the liquid variable `class="{{messageClasses}}"`. CloudCannon injects a class into the `{{messageClasses}}` liquid variable to change the content on the page as the user submits the form.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
                  On Jekyll-generated pages, please add `raw` tags so Jekyll outputs the liquid variable correctly: `{% raw %}{{messageClasses}}{% endraw %}`.
</comp.Notice>

You can add custom message classes to communicate with your users when using your forms, such as error-handling messages and success notifications. CloudCannon highly recommends adding a `has-incorrect-login` message class.

* The `has-incorrect-login` message class warns visitors when they enter incorrect login details.

A form action is not required for this page.

Here is an example of a basic login page:

<comp.CodeBlock language="html" source="login.html">
```

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Log in</title>
    <style>
      .incorrect-login-message {
        display: none;
      }

      .has-incorrect-login .incorrect-login-message {
        display: block;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Log in</h1>

    <form action="" method="post" class="{{messageClasses}}">
      <div class="incorrect-login-message">
        Incorrect password.
      </div>

      <label for="password">Password</label>
      <input id="password" type="password" name="password" autofocus>

      <input type="hidden" name="username" value="user">

      <input type="submit" value="Log in">
    </form>
  </body>
</html>

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  You may already have a `login.html` file if you are switching from [user account authentication](/documentation/articles/enable-user-account-authentication/) to password authentication. Make sure to update the contents of this file.
</comp.Notice>
