articles/file-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: e8772472-bd44-4b34-85a2-96632a3517dd
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: File inputs
nav_title: File inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  These inputs allow editors to upload new files, select existing images, or
  link to external files.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
These inputs allow editors to upload new files, select existing images, and add external links. Enterprise customers can even configure an external digital asset manager for their team.

## File

File select input with controls to enter external links and upload new files. Does not filter by file type when choosing files.

File inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `file`, or for input keys matching:

* `path`
* `*_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/file.png" alt="Screenshot of file input field with a CSS file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

extra_styles_path: /styles/screen.css

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

path_to_css: /styles/screen.css
_inputs:
  path_to_css:
    type: file

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Image

Image select inputs with controls to enter external links and upload new image files. Filters files available to choose to files with image extensions.

Image inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `image`, or for input keys matching:

* `image`
* `*_image`
* `image_path`
* `*_image_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/image.png" alt="Screenshot of image upload field with an image file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

background_image_path: /images/background.png

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

image_file: /images/background.png
_inputs:
  image_file:
    type: image

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Document

Document select inputs with controls to enter external links and upload new document files. Filters files available to choose to files with document extensions.

Document inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `document`, or for input keys matching:

* `document`
* `*_document`
* `document_path`
* `*_document_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/document.png" alt="Screenshot of Document input field with a PDF file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

newsletter_document_path: /documents/2016/newsletter.pdf

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

path_to_newsletter: /documents/2016/newsletter.pdf
_inputs:
  path_to_newsletter:
    type: document

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

File path inputs are configured with `options` inside an `_inputs` entry.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

image_file: /uploads/image.png
_retina_image_file: /uploads/image-2x.png

_inputs:
  image_file:
    type: image
    options:
      paths:
        uploads: uploads
      accepts_mime_types:
        - image/png
        - image/svg+xml
        - image/jpeg
      width: 400
      height: 300
      resize_style: crop
      mime_type: image/jpeg
      expandable: true
      prevent_resize_existing_files: false
      sizes:
        - size: 2x
          target: _retina_image_file

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

File path inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="accepts_mime_types" type_markdown="String or array of strings">
    Restricts which file types are available to select or upload to this input. Optional, each file path input has a different default:

    * File: `*`
    * Image: `image/x-icon,image/gif,image/jpeg,image/jpeg,image/png,image/webp,image/bmp,image/svg+xml`
    * Document: `application/pdf,application/msword,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document,application/vnd.ms-excel,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet,application/vnd.ms-powerpoint,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.presentation`

    If set as a string, the value should be a comma-separated (no spaces) list of the [mime types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) you want to filter by. The string `*` by itself allows any type.

    If set as an array, each item should be a string of a single [mime type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) you want to filter by.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    Set how an ‘empty’ value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `""`.
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allowed_sources" type_markdown="Array">
    If you have one or more DAMs connected to your site, you can use this key to list which asset sources can be uploaded to and selected from.

    You can refer to a DAM with the **Reference Key** field from the site-level DAM configuration.

    You can refer to your site files with `site-files`. If this is omitted from the array, site files will not be available as an asset source for this input.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

If the input allows for images, the following options are also available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="width" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the width of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="height" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the height of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="resize_style" type_markdown="String">
    Sets how uploaded image files are resized with a bounding box defined by `width` and `height` prior to upload. Defaults to `contain`. Must be `crop`, `contain`, `cover` or `stretch`:

    * `crop` prompts the user to choose a region of the image that matches the bounding box
    * `cover` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image covers the bounding box
    * `contain` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image fits inside the bounding box
    * `stretch` ignores aspect ratio and resizes the image to the bounding box

    If `width` and `height` are not set, `contain`, `cover` and `stretch` have no effect. For `crop`, `width` and `height` are both optional, controlling the minimum size of the crop region and resulting image. The aspect ratio of the crop region is also matched to these values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="mime_type" type_markdown="String">
    Sets what format the image is converted to prior to upload. The extension of the file is updated to match. Defaults to keeping the mime type of the uploaded file. Must be one of:

    * `image/jpeg`
    * `image/png`
    * `image/webp`
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="expandable" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not images can be upscaled to fit the bounding box during resize prior to upload. Defaults to `false`. Has no effect if files are not resized.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="prevent_resize_existing_files" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enable to skip the image resizing process configured for this input when selecting existing images. Defaults to false.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sizes" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Definitions for creating additional images of different sizes when uploading or selecting existing files. Has no default. Each entry contains the following fields:

    * `size` is a number suffixed with "x" (relative size) or "w" (fixed width) for setting the dimensions of the image (e.g. 2x, 3x, 100w, 360w)
    * `target` is a reference to another input that is given the path to this additional image file

    If the additional image cannot be created (i.e. the uploaded image is too small and would need to be upscaled), the `target` input's value is unset so references to previous files aren't mixed with new ones.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **file**, **image**, and **document** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `file: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `file: ""`
    * `file: ''`
    * `file: path/to`
    * `file: "path/to"`
    * `file: 'path/to'`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `file = ""`
    * `file = ''`
    * `file = "path/to"`
    * `file = 'path/to'`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"file": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"file": ""`
    * `"file": "path/to"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>

Commit message:

Update page description for all inputs

articles/file-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: e8772472-bd44-4b34-85a2-96632a3517dd
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: File inputs
nav_title: File inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a File input to store file paths or links external
  files in your data files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
These inputs allow editors to upload new files, select existing images, and add external links. Enterprise customers can even configure an external digital asset manager for their team.

## File

File select input with controls to enter external links and upload new files. Does not filter by file type when choosing files.

File inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `file`, or for input keys matching:

* `path`
* `*_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/file.png" alt="Screenshot of file input field with a CSS file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

extra_styles_path: /styles/screen.css

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

path_to_css: /styles/screen.css
_inputs:
  path_to_css:
    type: file

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Image

Image select inputs with controls to enter external links and upload new image files. Filters files available to choose to files with image extensions.

Image inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `image`, or for input keys matching:

* `image`
* `*_image`
* `image_path`
* `*_image_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/image.png" alt="Screenshot of image upload field with an image file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

background_image_path: /images/background.png

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

image_file: /images/background.png
_inputs:
  image_file:
    type: image

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Document

Document select inputs with controls to enter external links and upload new document files. Filters files available to choose to files with document extensions.

Document inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `document`, or for input keys matching:

* `document`
* `*_document`
* `document_path`
* `*_document_path`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/file/document.png" alt="Screenshot of Document input field with a PDF file selected" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

newsletter_document_path: /documents/2016/newsletter.pdf

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

path_to_newsletter: /documents/2016/newsletter.pdf
_inputs:
  path_to_newsletter:
    type: document

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

File path inputs are configured with `options` inside an `_inputs` entry.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

image_file: /uploads/image.png
_retina_image_file: /uploads/image-2x.png

_inputs:
  image_file:
    type: image
    options:
      paths:
        uploads: uploads
      accepts_mime_types:
        - image/png
        - image/svg+xml
        - image/jpeg
      width: 400
      height: 300
      resize_style: crop
      mime_type: image/jpeg
      expandable: true
      prevent_resize_existing_files: false
      sizes:
        - size: 2x
          target: _retina_image_file

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

File path inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded site files.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default location of newly uploaded [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="accepts_mime_types" type_markdown="String or array of strings">
    Restricts which file types are available to select or upload to this input. Optional, each file path input has a different default:

    * File: `*`
    * Image: `image/x-icon,image/gif,image/jpeg,image/jpeg,image/png,image/webp,image/bmp,image/svg+xml`
    * Document: `application/pdf,application/msword,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document,application/vnd.ms-excel,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.spreadsheetml.sheet,application/vnd.ms-powerpoint,application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.presentationml.presentation`

    If set as a string, the value should be a comma-separated (no spaces) list of the [mime types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) you want to filter by. The string `*` by itself allows any type.

    If set as an array, each item should be a string of a single [mime type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) you want to filter by.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="String">
    Set how an ‘empty’ value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `""`.
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="allowed_sources" type_markdown="Array">
    If you have one or more DAMs connected to your site, you can use this key to list which asset sources can be uploaded to and selected from.

    You can refer to a DAM with the **Reference Key** field from the site-level DAM configuration.

    You can refer to your site files with `site-files`. If this is omitted from the array, site files will not be available as an asset source for this input.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

If the input allows for images, the following options are also available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="width" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the width of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="height" type_markdown="Integer">
    Defines the height of the bounding box used in the resizing process defined with `resize_style`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="resize_style" type_markdown="String">
    Sets how uploaded image files are resized with a bounding box defined by `width` and `height` prior to upload. Defaults to `contain`. Must be `crop`, `contain`, `cover` or `stretch`:

    * `crop` prompts the user to choose a region of the image that matches the bounding box
    * `cover` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image covers the bounding box
    * `contain` keeps aspect ratio and ensures the image fits inside the bounding box
    * `stretch` ignores aspect ratio and resizes the image to the bounding box

    If `width` and `height` are not set, `contain`, `cover` and `stretch` have no effect. For `crop`, `width` and `height` are both optional, controlling the minimum size of the crop region and resulting image. The aspect ratio of the crop region is also matched to these values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="mime_type" type_markdown="String">
    Sets what format the image is converted to prior to upload. The extension of the file is updated to match. Defaults to keeping the mime type of the uploaded file. Must be one of:

    * `image/jpeg`
    * `image/png`
    * `image/webp`
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="expandable" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Controls whether or not images can be upscaled to fit the bounding box during resize prior to upload. Defaults to `false`. Has no effect if files are not resized.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="prevent_resize_existing_files" type_markdown="Boolean">
    Enable to skip the image resizing process configured for this input when selecting existing images. Defaults to false.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="sizes" type_markdown="Array of objects">
    Definitions for creating additional images of different sizes when uploading or selecting existing files. Has no default. Each entry contains the following fields:

    * `size` is a number suffixed with "x" (relative size) or "w" (fixed width) for setting the dimensions of the image (e.g. 2x, 3x, 100w, 360w)
    * `target` is a reference to another input that is given the path to this additional image file

    If the additional image cannot be created (i.e. the uploaded image is too small and would need to be upscaled), the `target` input's value is unset so references to previous files aren't mixed with new ones.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **file**, **image**, and **document** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `file: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `file: ""`
    * `file: ''`
    * `file: path/to`
    * `file: "path/to"`
    * `file: 'path/to'`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `file = ""`
    * `file = ''`
    * `file = "path/to"`
    * `file = 'path/to'`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"file": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"file": ""`
    * `"file": "path/to"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>
