articles/input-naming-convention-flags.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 100449cc-d04a-4d0f-be30-ba9d30ba172d
_created_at: 2024-10-29T13:02:31+13:00
title: Input Naming Convention Flags
nav_title: Input Naming Convention Flags
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description:
article_category:
  - Explanation
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Flags
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
* The *Infer Select values from input key* flag controls whether inputs will select from collections automatically. For example, whether an input named `author` will automatically become a select box referencing a collection named `authors`. New Sites using Unified Configuration will **not** have this flag enabled, but it can be enabled in the Site settings.
* The *Infer Structure from input key* flag controls whether inputs will reference a configured structure automatically. For example, whether an input named `content_blocks` will automatically become an array of the structure named `content_blocks`. All sites will continue to have this flag enabled by default, but this can be disabled in the Site settings.

Commit message:

Add naming conv flag copy

articles/input-naming-convention-flags.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 100449cc-d04a-4d0f-be30-ba9d30ba172d
_created_at: 2024-10-29T13:02:31+13:00
title: Input Naming Convention Flags
nav_title: Input Naming Convention Flags
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about the input naming convention flags and how they might affect your
  Select inputs and Structures.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Flags
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  As of October 2024, CloudCannon's input naming convention behavior changed for all new Sites and Sites using Unified Configuration. For more information, please read out guide on [migrating to Unified Configuration](/documentation/guides/unified-configuration-migration-guide/) or contact our friendly [support team](/support/).
</comp.Notice>

In older versions of CloudCannon, you could define which [Collections](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-collection/) or [data sets](/documentation/articles/define-your-data/) populated a [Select or Multiselect input](/documentation/articles/select-and-multiselect-inputs/) or which [Structures](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-structure/) populated an [Object input](/documentation/articles/object-inputs/) or [Array input](/documentation/articles/array-inputs/) using a naming convention.

Sites using Unified Configuration may require you to configure this behavior rather than rely on the naming convention for CloudCannon to detect what should populate an input.

## Infer Select values from input key

The *Infer Select values from input key* flag controls whether CloudCannon uses the input naming convention to determine which Collections or data sets should populate a Select or Multiselect input.

This convention involved naming the input the singular noun of a Collection or data set name. For example, an unconfigured input named `author` will automatically become a Select input referencing a Collection named `authors`.

CloudCannon no longer uses this behavior by default. New Sites created after October 2024 and sites using Unified Configuration do not have this flag enabled. You can enable this behavior by checking the *Infer Select values from input key* flag on the *Flags* page of your Site, under *Site Settings*.

## Infer Structure values from input key

The *Infer Structure from input key* flag controls whether CloudCannon uses the input naming convention to determine which Structures should populate an Object or Array input.

This convention involved naming the Structure the same as an input. For example, an unconfigured input named `content_blocks` will automatically become an array of the structure named `content_blocks`.

CloudCannon enables this behavior by default to support older Site configurations. You can disable this behavior by checking the *Infer Structure from input key* flag on the *Flags* page of your Site, under *Site Settings*.
