articles/introducing-the-visual-editor.mdx, before:

---
_uuid: b504c79e-c71a-4cf0-a968-1906b597930e
_created_at: "2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000"
title: "Introduction to Visual Editing"
nav_title: "Introduction to Visual Editing"
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: "Visually navigate and edit the content on your site."
tags: []
related_articles: null
related_links: null
---

Visual Editing empowers your content team to edit on the page itself, and to see results instantly with live previews. Content editors can have clearly defined access to — and control over — their page contents, without needing to worry about anything too technical.

The Visual Editor is one of the main ways to manage content in CloudCannon. It mirrors your site itself, so the site's content is the only thing your editors need to know.

* Navigate to other pages by clicking links on the site.
* All of your styles and JavaScript remain intact and functional within the Visual Editor.

## Editing markup
If you have your content stored in HTML or markdown, CloudCannon enables editing that content directly on the page:

1. [Editable regions](/documentation/articles/defining-editable-regions-in-your-html/)\: add the class of `editable` to any element to enable a WYSIWIG editor directly on the page.
2. [Markdown in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/editing-markdown-files-in-the-visual-editor/)\: edit markdown on the page instead of the Content Editor. Isolate your content tag in one element and edit inline.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/visual-editing-docs-1.gif" alt="Animated GIF showing visual editing inline" type="regular" />

## Editing data
Visual editing data is a combination of two features on CloudCannon:

1. [Data previews](/documentation/articles/what-is-live-editing/)\: receive updates from CloudCannon whenever changes in your data occur. Rerender the page with the new data to give live context updates to your editors. Remove the guess work.
2. [Data binding](/documentation/articles/what-are-visual-data-bindings/)\: inform CloudCannon about which elements on the page correlate to which keys in your data. CloudCannon can then give controls directly on the page. As easy as adding an attribute to your elements. It is recommended both are used in conjunction for the best editing experience.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/editing-data-docs.gif" alt="Animated GIF showing data editing with Editor Panels" type="regular" />

## Customizing your controls
You can further configure the controls on your site, giving content editors a personalized workflow for their use case:

* [Detecting when your site is loaded in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/detecting-your-site-is-loaded-in-the-visual-editor/)
* [Link to other sections of the CloudCannon interface (Editor Links)](/documentation/articles/extending-in-app-navigation-with-editor-links/)
* [Disable CloudCannon window global in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/preventing-the-global-cloudcannon-live-editing-object/)

Commit message:

Updated navigation titles for editing interfaces

articles/introducing-the-visual-editor.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b504c79e-c71a-4cf0-a968-1906b597930e
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Introducing the Visual Editor
nav_title: The Visual Editor
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: Visually navigate and edit the content on your site.
tags: []
related_links:
---
Visual Editing empowers your content team to edit on the page itself, and to see results instantly with live previews. Content editors can have clearly defined access to — and control over — their page contents, without needing to worry about anything too technical.

The Visual Editor is one of the main ways to manage content in CloudCannon. It mirrors your site itself, so the site's content is the only thing your editors need to know.

* Navigate to other pages by clicking links on the site.
* All of your styles and JavaScript remain intact and functional within the Visual Editor.

## Editing markup
If you have your content stored in HTML or markdown, CloudCannon enables editing that content directly on the page:

1. [Editable regions](/documentation/articles/defining-editable-regions-in-your-html/)\: add the class of `editable` to any element to enable a WYSIWIG editor directly on the page.
2. [Markdown in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/editing-markdown-files-in-the-visual-editor/)\: edit markdown on the page instead of the Content Editor. Isolate your content tag in one element and edit inline.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/visual-editing-docs-1.gif" alt="Animated GIF showing visual editing inline" type="regular" />

## Editing data
Visual editing data is a combination of two features on CloudCannon:

1. [Data previews](/documentation/articles/what-is-live-editing/)\: receive updates from CloudCannon whenever changes in your data occur. Rerender the page with the new data to give live context updates to your editors. Remove the guess work.
2. [Data binding](/documentation/articles/what-are-visual-data-bindings/)\: inform CloudCannon about which elements on the page correlate to which keys in your data. CloudCannon can then give controls directly on the page. As easy as adding an attribute to your elements. It is recommended both are used in conjunction for the best editing experience.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/editing-data-docs.gif" alt="Animated GIF showing data editing with Editor Panels" type="regular" />

## Customizing your controls
You can further configure the controls on your site, giving content editors a personalized workflow for their use case:

* [Detecting when your site is loaded in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/detecting-your-site-is-loaded-in-the-visual-editor/)
* [Link to other sections of the CloudCannon interface (Editor Links)](/documentation/articles/extending-in-app-navigation-with-editor-links/)
* [Disable CloudCannon window global in the Visual Editor](/documentation/articles/preventing-the-global-cloudcannon-live-editing-object/)
