articles/join-or-leave-an-organization.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 22a3a80d-e54f-40ef-bc43-f24f52b5649a
_created_at: 2024-04-12T14:37:27+12:00
title: Join or leave an Organization
nav_title: Join or leave an Organization
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to accept or decline an invitation to join a CloudCannon
  Organization.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
x

## Join an Organization

To join an Organization in CloudCannon, an existing member must invite you. When someone invites you, CloudCannon will send you an email invitation with the name of the Organization.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

To join an Organization in CloudCannon:

1. Log in to CloudCannon or create an account using the link in your email invitation.
2. Navigate to the *Organizations dashboard*. This page lists all your current Organizations and pending invitations.
3. Click the *Accept invite* button.

Once you accept the invitation, CloudCannon will add you to the Organization as a member of the [Permission Group(s)](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) selected by the person who invited you.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

Alternatively, you can decline an invitation to join an Organization at CloudCannon by clicking the *Decline invite* button. However, once you decline an invitation to an Organization, a current member of that Organization must re-invite you if you want to join at a later date.

Commit message:

Update copy for Join/leave org

articles/join-or-leave-an-organization.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 22a3a80d-e54f-40ef-bc43-f24f52b5649a
_created_at: 2024-04-12T14:37:27+12:00
title: Join or leave an Organization
nav_title: Join or leave an Organization
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to accept or decline an invitation to join a CloudCannon
  Organization or leave an Organization you are a member of.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
An [Organization](/documentation/articles/what-is-an-organization/) is a group of people who share the same resources in CloudCannon. Anyone with a CloudCannon account can [create an Organization](/documentation/articles/creating-a-new-organization/) (these people are called [Owners](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/#owners)) and invite others to be [team members](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/). You can be a member of multiple Organizations at once and leave them at any time.

## Join an Organization

To join an Organization in CloudCannon, [an existing member must invite you](/documentation/articles/managing-your-team-members/). When someone invites you, CloudCannon will send you an email invitation with the name of the Organization.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

To join an Organization in CloudCannon:

1. Log in to CloudCannon or create an account using the link in your email invitation.
2. Navigate to the *Organizations dashboard*. This page lists all your current Organizations and pending invitations.
3. Click the *Accept invite* button.

Once you accept the invitation, CloudCannon will add you to the Organization as a member of the [Permission Group(s)](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) selected by the person who invited you.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

Alternatively, you can decline an invitation to join an Organization at CloudCannon by clicking the *Decline invite* button. However, once you decline an invitation to an Organization, a current member of that Organization must re-invite you if you want to join at a later date.

## Leave an Organization

To leave an Organization in CloudCannon:

1. Navigate to the *My permissions* page under *Org settings.*
