articles/lock-builds-for-your-site.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b28b8fa3-a6c9-44cd-95aa-c5706a8c7f00
_created_at: 2024-08-29T12:56:57+12:00
title: Lock builds for your Site
nav_title: Lock builds for your Site
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description:
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Builds
  - Sites
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
&nbsp;

&nbsp;

To lock builds for your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Build configuration* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Check the *Building Locked* checkbox.
3. Click the *Update Site* button.

&nbsp;

---

Sites can be prevented from building by turning on ‘Building Locked’ within the site settings. This is useful when you want to manage a deployment more manually. Most editing configuration is read at build time, so changes to configuration may be delayed while building is locked.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/configure-cli-options/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Build-Configuration-CLI-Options.png" alt="A screenshot of the Build Configurations page shows text fields for configuring your command line options." title="The Build Configuration page" type="screenshot"/>

Commit message:

Add image and copy to "lock builds"

articles/lock-builds-for-your-site.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b28b8fa3-a6c9-44cd-95aa-c5706a8c7f00
_created_at: 2024-08-29T12:56:57+12:00
title: Lock builds for your Site
nav_title: Lock builds for your Site
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to lock build for your Site if you want to manage deployment
  manually.
article_category:
  - Instructions
article_topic:
  - Builds
  - Sites
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
You can prevent a Site from building by turning on *Building Locked* in the *Site Settings*. Locking builds on your Site is useful if you want to manage deployment manually.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  CloudCannon automatically locks builds if you have not [configured your first build](/documentation/articles/configure-your-first-build/) or selected [Headless Mode](/documentation/articles/what-is-headless-mode/).
</comp.Notice>

To lock builds for your Site:

1. Navigate to the *Build configuration* page under *Site Settings*.
2. Check the *Building Locked* checkbox.
3. Click the *Update Site* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/builds/configure-cli-options/2024-08/CloudCannon-Documentation-Build-Configuration-CLI-Options.png" alt="A screenshot of the Build Configurations page shows a checkbox for Building Locked." title="The Build Configuration page" type="screenshot"/>
