articles/manage-my-permissions.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 2000572a-58d3-4ce1-b876-d2c8668ec412
_created_at: 2024-04-16T10:46:18+12:00
title: Manage my permissions
nav_title: Manage my permissions
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to review the Permission Groups you belong to and leave a Permission
  Group.
article_category:
  - Instructions
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Permissions control what actions you can perform within your [Organization](/documentation/articles/what-is-an-organization/). Your permissions are determined by which [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) you belong to.

## Review my current Permission Groups

To view your current permissions:

1. Navigate to the *My permissions* page under *Org settings.*

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

## Leave a Permission Group

x

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can leave yourself from a Permission Group at any time. However, you may not have permission to add yourself to a Group. If you accidentally remove yourself from a Permission Group, please contact the appropriate member of your team or read our documentation on [adding team members to a Permission Group](/documentation/articles/add-a-team-member-to-a-permission-group/).
</comp.Notice>

&nbsp;

Commit message:

Update copy for "Manage my permissions"

articles/manage-my-permissions.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 2000572a-58d3-4ce1-b876-d2c8668ec412
_created_at: 2024-04-16T10:46:18+12:00
title: Manage my permissions
nav_title: Manage my permissions
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to review the Permission Groups you belong to and leave a Permission
  Group.
article_category:
  - Instructions
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
## Review my current Permission Groups

Permissions control what actions you can perform within your [Organization](/documentation/articles/what-is-an-organization/). Your permissions are determined by which [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/) you belong to.

To view your current permissions:

1. Navigate to the *My permissions* page under *Org settings.*

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

## Leave a Permission Group

You can leave a Permission Group at any time. However, you may not have permission to add yourself to a Group. If you accidentally remove yourself from a Permission Group, please contact the appropriate member of your team or read our documentation on [adding team members to a Permission Group](/documentation/articles/add-a-team-member-to-a-permission-group/).

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  You must be a member of at least one Permission Group in each Organization. If you leave your last Permission Group, this action will also remove you from this Organization.
</comp.Notice>

To leave a Permission Group:

1. Navigate to the *My permissions* tab under *Org settings.*
2. Identify the Permission Group you want to leave and click on the *Context menu*.
3. Select the *Leave Group* option from the *Context menu* dropdown.
4. Confirm that you want to leave this Group by clicking the *Leave Group* button in the confirmation modal.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>
