articles/managing-your-connected-dams.mdx, before:

---
_uuid: "854167d6-19c7-4a7e-8fd0-23496020eef7"
_created_at: "2022-03-01 03:30:24 +0000"
title: "Managing your connected DAMs"
nav_title: "Managing DAMs"
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: "Learn how to update the details of your connected DAMs"
tags: []
related_articles: null
related_links: null
---

Learn how to update the details of your connected DAMs

### Updating your DAM details
To update the details that are stored in CloudCannon:

1. In your Organisation settings, navigate to *Files* / *Assets*
2. Locate the relevant DAM, and click the **Manage** button next to its name
3. In the **Configuration tab**, edit your details, then click **Update** to save your changes.

### Prevent uploads to your DAM


<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  **Tenovos** DAMs do not support uploading within CloudCannon.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Uploads to **Cloudinary** DAMs cannot be disabled.
</comp.Notice>

You can prevent your editors from uploading assets to the DAM from within the CloudCannon app. This is set per-site.

To lock uploads to your DAM:

1. In your site’s settings, navigate to *Files */ *Assets*
2. Locate your DAM from the list, and click the three dots in the top right corner
3. From the context menu, click **Update Settings**
4. In the modal, tick the **Uploads Locked** option, then click **Update**.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://dam-cdn.cloudcannon.com/documentation/images/assets/site_dam_settings.png" alt="Screenshot of site DAM settings modal" type="screenshot" />

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can prevent choosing existing files from and uploads to your site/repository files in the *Site Settings / Details* section.
</comp.Notice>

Commit message:

Document setting for max upload size to dams

articles/managing-your-connected-dams.mdx, after:

---
_uuid: "854167d6-19c7-4a7e-8fd0-23496020eef7"
_created_at: "2022-03-01 03:30:24 +0000"
title: "Managing your connected DAMs"
nav_title: "Managing DAMs"
published: true
image: "/documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg"
description: "Learn how to update the details of your connected DAMs"
tags: []
related_articles: null
related_links: null
---

Learn how to update the details of your connected DAMs

### Updating your DAM details

To update the details that are stored in CloudCannon:

1. In your Organization settings, navigate to *Files* / *Assets*
2. Locate the relevant DAM, and click the **Manage** button next to its name
3. In the **Configuration tab**, edit your details, then click **Update** to save your changes.

### Limiting size of uploads to your DAM

You can use the **Maximum size for uploaded files** setting to prevent uploads exceeding a pre-determined size. This should be set in bytes. For example, to limit uploads to 1 GB you could set this to 1,000,000,000.

### Prevent uploads to your DAM


<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  **Tenovos** DAMs do not support uploading within CloudCannon.
</comp.Notice>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Uploads to **Cloudinary** DAMs cannot be disabled.
</comp.Notice>

You can prevent your editors from uploading assets to the DAM from within the CloudCannon app. This is set per-site.

To lock uploads to your DAM:

1. In your site’s settings, navigate to *Files */ *Assets*
2. Locate your DAM from the list, and click the three dots in the top right corner
3. From the context menu, click **Update Settings**
4. In the modal, tick the **Uploads Locked** option, then click **Update**.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://dam-cdn.cloudcannon.com/documentation/images/assets/site_dam_settings.png" alt="Screenshot of site DAM settings modal" type="screenshot" />

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can prevent choosing existing files from and uploads to your site/repository files in the *Site Settings / Details* section.
</comp.Notice>
