articles/managing-your-team-members.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ac679832-6d24-441e-86bc-7623ef4d108b
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Managing your team members
nav_title: Managing your team members
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to manage the team members within your Organization, including how
  to add, remove, and update the permissions of your team members.
tags:
  - Organizations
  - team
  - sharing
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
## What are team members?

x

## Add a team member to your Organization

To add a team member to your Organization:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Under the *Members* tab, click the *\+ Manage members* button on the right to open the *Manage organization members* modal.
3. Enter the email address of the person you want to add to your Organization.
4. Enter the permission group(s) you want to add these team members to. You must select at least one.
5. Click *Add members*.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will email anyone who does not yet have a CloudCannon account and invite them to create one. While you wait for them to accept the invitation, their name will appear in the list of *Pending members* on the *Members* tab of the *Team* page.

If you need to re-send or cancel an invitation to a pending member, select the *Re-send invite* or *Cancel invite* options from the *Context menu* at the top right of the member card.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can paste a list of email addresses into the *Manage organization members* modal to quickly add multiple members to your Organization.
</comp.Notice>

## Update a team member's permissions

### Add to a permission group

Adding a team member to a permission group will increase their permissions in your Organization.

Permission groups are always additive. In other words, permissions from one group do not negate permissions from another. CloudCannon will allow an action if a team member has permission to do so from at least one source. For more information about permissions, read our documentation on [default permission groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) and our [permissions reference](/documentation/articles/permissions-reference/) documentation.

There are three ways to add a team member to a permission group. The best method to use will depend on whether you want to:

* Add multiple team members to multiple permission groups.
* Add a specific team member to multiple permission groups.
* Add multiple team members to a specific permission group.

#### Add multiple team members to multiple groups

To add a team member to your Organization:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Under the *Members* tab, click the *\+ Manage members* button on the right to open the *Manage organization members* modal.
3. Enter the name of the team member(s) you want to update the permissions of.
4. Enter the permission group(s) you want to add these team members to. You must select at least one.
5. Click *Add members*.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can use the *Manage organization members* modal to update the permissions of existing team members at the same time as inviting new users.
</comp.Notice>

#### Add a specific team member to a permission group

x

#### Add a team member to a specific permission group

x

### Remove from a permission group

x

## Remove a team member from your Organization

x

## Site sharing

x

---

After creating an Organization, your account is set up as the owner. There are 4 types of users in an Organization:

1. **Owners**: These users have full permission as if it is their own account
2. **Developers**: Can create sites and manage everything to do with them, can’t update billing information
3. **Technical Editors**: Can update sites with the source editor but cannot create new sites
4. **Editors**: Can update content on sites using the visual editing interfaces

Once your team members have access, users at all permission levels can [create new branches](/documentation/articles/create-a-project/) and edit content on your site. CloudCannon will notify Developers and Owners by email if a user makes a change that causes their build to fail.

### Adding a new Team Member

To add a team member:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click the **Add Member** button.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-teams.png" alt="Screenshot of Organization team interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Add the email of the person you want to share, select the Permission Level required, and press **Add team member**

This will email the team member and prompts them to sign up or log in. Once logged in, they have access to all sites created under the organization at the level specified.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-add-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Add Team Member modal" title="" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Teams can be automatically created from your own identity provider. See SAML configuration for more information.
</comp.Notice>

### Updating a Team Member’s level

To increase or decrease a team members permission level:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click on the three dots next to the person you want to update
3. Click on **Update permissions**
4. Select the permission level you want them to have and click **Update Permissions**

Only owners and developers have permission to update team members. Developers do not have permission to alter the details of an Owner.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-more-options-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Organization Team interface with context menu open on a team member" title="" type="screenshot"/>

### Removing a Team Member

To remove a team member:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click on the three dots next to the person you want to update
3. Click on **Revoke Access**.
4. In the modal, click **Revoke Access**. Click again to confirm.

You can only remove team members if you are an owner or developer. Developers do not have permission to remove an Owner.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-remove-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Remove Team Member Modal" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Commit message:

update copy and add specific group para

articles/managing-your-team-members.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: ac679832-6d24-441e-86bc-7623ef4d108b
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Managing your team members
nav_title: Managing your team members
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to manage the team members within your Organization, including how
  to add, remove, and update the permissions of your team members.
tags:
  - Organizations
  - team
  - sharing
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
## What are team members?

x

## Add a team member to your Organization

To add a team member to your Organization:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Under the *Members* tab, click the *\+ Manage members* button on the right. CloudCannon will open the *Manage organization members* modal.
3. Enter the email address of the person you want to add to your Organization.
4. Enter the permission group(s) to which you want to add these team members. You must select at least one.
5. Click the *Add member(s)* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon will email anyone who does not yet have a CloudCannon account and invite them to create one. While you wait for them to accept the invitation, their name will appear in the list of *Pending members* on the *Members* tab of the *Team* page.

If you need to re-send or cancel an invitation to a pending member, select the *Re-send invite* or *Cancel invite* options from the *Context menu* at the top right of the member card.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can paste a list of email addresses into the *Manage organization members* modal to quickly add multiple members to your Organization.
</comp.Notice>

## Update a team member's permissions

### Add to a permission group

Adding a team member to a permission group will increase their permissions in your Organization.

Permission groups are always additive. In other words, permissions from one group do not negate permissions from another. CloudCannon will allow an action if a team member has permission to do so from at least one source. For more information about permissions, read our documentation on [default permission groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) and our [permissions reference](/documentation/articles/permissions-reference/) documentation.

There are three ways to add a team member to a permission group. The best method to use will depend on whether you want to:

* Add multiple team members to multiple permission groups.
* Add a specific team member to multiple permission groups.
* Add multiple team members to a specific permission group.

#### Add multiple team members to multiple groups

To add a team member to your Organization:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Under the *Members* tab, click the *\+ Manage members* button on the right. CloudCannon will open the *Manage organization members* modal.
3. Enter the name of the team member(s) you want to update the permissions of.
4. Enter the permission group(s) to which you want to add these team members. You must select at least one.
5. Click the *Add member(s)* button.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  You can use the *Manage organization members* modal to update the permissions of existing team members at the same time as inviting new users.
</comp.Notice>

#### Add a specific team member to a permission group

To add a specific team member to one or more permission groups:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Under the *Members* tab, click on the member you want to update the permissions of.
3. Click the *\+ Add group* button on the right. CloudCannon will open the *Add to groups* modal.
4. Enter the permission group(s) to which you want to add this team member.
5. Click the *Add to group(s)* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

#### Add a team member to a specific permission group

To add one or more team members to a specific permission group:

1. Navigate to the *Team* page under *Org settings*.
2. Click on the *Groups* tab.
3. Under the *Groups* tab, click on the permission group to which you want to add members.
4. Click the *\+ Add group member* button on the right. CloudCannon will open the *Add members* modal.
5. Enter the name of the team member(s) you want to add to this permission group. You can also enter the email addresses of new users you want to invite to your Organization.
6. Click the *Add member(s)* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

### Remove from a permission group

x

## Remove a team member from your Organization

x

## Site sharing

x

---

After creating an Organization, your account is set up as the owner. There are 4 types of users in an Organization:

1. **Owners**: These users have full permission as if it is their own account
2. **Developers**: Can create sites and manage everything to do with them, can’t update billing information
3. **Technical Editors**: Can update sites with the source editor but cannot create new sites
4. **Editors**: Can update content on sites using the visual editing interfaces

Once your team members have access, users at all permission levels can [create new branches](/documentation/articles/create-a-project/) and edit content on your site. CloudCannon will notify Developers and Owners by email if a user makes a change that causes their build to fail.

### Adding a new Team Member

To add a team member:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click the **Add Member** button.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-teams.png" alt="Screenshot of Organization team interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Add the email of the person you want to share, select the Permission Level required, and press **Add team member**

This will email the team member and prompts them to sign up or log in. Once logged in, they have access to all sites created under the organization at the level specified.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-add-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Add Team Member modal" title="" type="screenshot"/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Teams can be automatically created from your own identity provider. See SAML configuration for more information.
</comp.Notice>

### Updating a Team Member’s level

To increase or decrease a team members permission level:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click on the three dots next to the person you want to update
3. Click on **Update permissions**
4. Select the permission level you want them to have and click **Update Permissions**

Only owners and developers have permission to update team members. Developers do not have permission to alter the details of an Owner.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-more-options-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Organization Team interface with context menu open on a team member" title="" type="screenshot"/>

### Removing a Team Member

To remove a team member:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *Team*
2. Click on the three dots next to the person you want to update
3. Click on **Revoke Access**.
4. In the modal, click **Revoke Access**. Click again to confirm.

You can only remove team members if you are an owner or developer. Developers do not have permission to remove an Owner.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-remove-team-member.png" alt="Screenshot of Remove Team Member Modal" title="" type="screenshot"/>
