articles/number-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0cd8cea1-9ee9-4a27-8ab0-4a5709de6c24
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Number inputs
nav_title: Number inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: These inputs are for editing numerical values in your data.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links:
---
These inputs are for editing numerical values in your data.

## Number

Single line input field for integers or decimals.

Number inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `number`, or input keys matching:

* `number`
* `*_number`

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/number-2.png" alt="Screenshot of a number input field with decimals" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/number-1.png" alt="Screenshot of a number input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

number: 3.14
sort_number: 2

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

order: 1
_inputs:
  order:
    type: number

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Range

A combination number and range input field for integers or decimals.

Range inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `range`. This input requires `step`, `min` and `max` options.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/range-input.png" alt="Screenshot of a range input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

order: 12
_inputs:
  order:
    type: range
    options:
      step: 2
      max: 20
      min: 0

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

Number input options are configured with `options` inside an `_inputs` entry.

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="min" type_markdown="Float">
    The lowest value in the range of permitted values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="max" type_markdown="Float">
    The greatest value in the range of permitted values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="step" type_markdown={"Float or \"any\""}>
    A number that specifies the granularity that the value must adhere to, or the special value `any`, which allows any decimal value between `max` and `min`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    Set how an 'empty' value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `number` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `0` (default).
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value. This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **number** and **range** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Binary and hexadecimal numbers will be converted to base-10 integers when loaded into the Data Editor
</comp.Notice>

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `number: `

    Whole base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 123456`
    * `number: -123456`
    * `number: 123456e78`
    * `number: 123456e+78`
    * `number: 123456e-78`

    Floating point numbers (unquoted):
    * `number: 123.456`
    * `number: -123.456`
    * `number: 123.456e78`
    * `number: 123.456e+78`
    * `number: 123.456e-78`

    Binary integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 0b11110001001000000`

    Hexadecimal integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 0x1E240`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Whole base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `number = 12346`
    * `number = +123456`
    * `number = -123456`
    * `number = 123_456`

    Floating point numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 123.456`
    * `number = +123.456`
    * `number = -123.456`
    * `number = 123.456e78`
    * `number = 123.456E78`
    * `number = 123.456e09`
    * `number = 123.456e+78`
    * `number = 123.456e-78`
    * `number = -123.456e78`
    * `number = 123_456.789_012`

    Hexadecimal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0x1E240`

    Octal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0o361100`

    Hexadecimal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0b11110001001000000`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"number": null`

    Base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `"number": 123456`
    * `"number": -123456`
    * `"number": 123456e78`
    * `"number": -123456e78`

    Floating-point numbers (unquoted):
    * `"number": 123.456`
    * `"number": -123.456`
    * `"number": 123.456e78`
    * `"number": 123.456E78`
    * `"number": 123.456e+78`
    * `"number": -123.456e78`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>

Commit message:

Update page description for all inputs

articles/number-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0cd8cea1-9ee9-4a27-8ab0-4a5709de6c24
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Number inputs
nav_title: Number inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a Number input to store numerical values in your data
  files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links:
---
These inputs are for editing numerical values in your data.

## Number

Single line input field for integers or decimals.

Number inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `number`, or input keys matching:

* `number`
* `*_number`

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/number-2.png" alt="Screenshot of a number input field with decimals" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/number-1.png" alt="Screenshot of a number input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

number: 3.14
sort_number: 2

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

order: 1
_inputs:
  order:
    type: number

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Range

A combination number and range input field for integers or decimals.

Range inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `range`. This input requires `step`, `min` and `max` options.

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/range-input.png" alt="Screenshot of a range input field" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

order: 12
_inputs:
  order:
    type: range
    options:
      step: 2
      max: 20
      min: 0

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

## Options

Number input options are configured with `options` inside an `_inputs` entry.

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="min" type_markdown="Float">
    The lowest value in the range of permitted values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="max" type_markdown="Float">
    The greatest value in the range of permitted values.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="step" type_markdown={"Float or \"any\""}>
    A number that specifies the granularity that the value must adhere to, or the special value `any`, which allows any decimal value between `max` and `min`.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    Set how an 'empty' value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `number` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `0` (default).
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value. This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **number** and **range** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Binary and hexadecimal numbers will be converted to base-10 integers when loaded into the Data Editor
</comp.Notice>

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `number: `

    Whole base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 123456`
    * `number: -123456`
    * `number: 123456e78`
    * `number: 123456e+78`
    * `number: 123456e-78`

    Floating point numbers (unquoted):
    * `number: 123.456`
    * `number: -123.456`
    * `number: 123.456e78`
    * `number: 123.456e+78`
    * `number: 123.456e-78`

    Binary integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 0b11110001001000000`

    Hexadecimal integers (unquoted):
    * `number: 0x1E240`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Whole base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `number = 12346`
    * `number = +123456`
    * `number = -123456`
    * `number = 123_456`

    Floating point numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 123.456`
    * `number = +123.456`
    * `number = -123.456`
    * `number = 123.456e78`
    * `number = 123.456E78`
    * `number = 123.456e09`
    * `number = 123.456e+78`
    * `number = 123.456e-78`
    * `number = -123.456e78`
    * `number = 123_456.789_012`

    Hexadecimal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0x1E240`

    Octal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0o361100`

    Hexadecimal numbers (unquoted):
    * `number = 0b11110001001000000`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"number": null`

    Base-10 integers (unquoted):
    * `"number": 123456`
    * `"number": -123456`
    * `"number": 123456e78`
    * `"number": -123456e78`

    Floating-point numbers (unquoted):
    * `"number": 123.456`
    * `"number": -123.456`
    * `"number": 123.456e78`
    * `"number": 123.456E78`
    * `"number": 123.456e+78`
    * `"number": -123.456e78`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>
