articles/permissions-reference.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 4d336ea8-9dd3-45e8-9cc6-8773ae77d3ae
_created_at: 2024-04-16T10:45:46+12:00
title: Permissions reference
nav_title: Permissions reference
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: A list of permission options for using Permission Groups.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
You can control what your team can access using <a href="/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">permission groups</a>. For each permission group, you can set the permissions for every member of that group.

In CloudCannon, [default](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) and [custom permission groups](/documentation/articles/create-a-permission-group/) are available depending on your [pricing plan](/pricing/). You cannot configure the permissions for default permission groups.

This article covers all permissions in CloudCannon. For more information about permission groups, read our documentation on [creating a permission group](/documentation/articles/create-a-permission-group/).

Each group has the following permissions available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="site" type_markdown="Read, write, or create">
    Description
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="org" type_markdown="Read or write">
    Description
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

Commit message:

what are team members and permissions

articles/permissions-reference.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 4d336ea8-9dd3-45e8-9cc6-8773ae77d3ae
_created_at: 2024-04-16T10:45:46+12:00
title: Permissions reference
nav_title: Permissions reference
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: A list of permission options for using Permission Groups.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Permissions control what actions your team members can perform within your [Organization](/documentation/articles/what-is-an-organization/). The permissions of each team member are determined by which [permission groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) they belong to. For each permission group, you can configure a set of permissions and give those permissions to every group member.

<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  In CloudCannon, [default](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) and [custom permission groups](/documentation/articles/create-a-permission-group/) are available depending on your [pricing plan](/pricing/). You cannot configure the permissions for default permission groups.
</comp.Notice>

This article covers all permissions in CloudCannon. For more information about permission groups, read our documentation on [creating a permission group](/documentation/articles/create-a-permission-group/).

Each group has the following permissions available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="site" type_markdown="Read, write, or create">
    Description
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="org" type_markdown="Read or write">
    Description
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>
