articles/text-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dc0eabff-27d7-4c59-9c0b-4db0b4b6b9c5
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Text inputs
nav_title: Text inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a Text input to store plain text content in your data
  files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Instructions
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
A text input lets your team members add plain text to your data files or front matter.

There are four types of Text input:

* Text
* Textarea
* Email
* Disabled

For each input, you can configure how CloudCannon handles null values. For Textarea inputs, you can configure a character counter. You can also use the [general configuration options](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/#general-configuration-options) available for all inputs.

## Text

The Text input provides a simple editing interface for plain text.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Text-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Text input in the Data Editor." title="The Text input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Text input using the `type` key with the value `text`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  blog_title___2___:
    type___3___: text

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Text input is called `blog_title`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `text` input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Text input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```
---
blog_title: The benefits of static sites
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Textarea

The Textarea input provides a resizable editing interface for plain text.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Textarea-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Textarea input in the Data Editor, with a resizable text box." title="The Textarea input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Textarea input using the `type` key with the value `textarea`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  page_description___2___:
    type___3___: textarea

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Textarea input is called `page_description`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `textarea` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Textarea input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```
---
page_description: This page is about how to configure your inputs.
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Email

The Email input provides an editing interface for plain text with an email icon for context.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Email-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Email input in the Data Editor." title="The Email input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Email input using the `type` key with the value `email`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  contact_address___2___:
    type___3___: email

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Email input is called `contact_address`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `email` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Email input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```
---
contact_address: support@cloudcannon.com
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Disabled

The Disabled input is a single line of read-only plain text. The field for this input appears grayed-out, and you can only edit the value in the Source Editor.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Disabled-Text-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of a disabled Text input in the Data Editor." title="A disabled Text input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Disabled input using the `type` key with the value `disabled`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  author___2___:
    type___3___: disabled

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Disabled input is called `author`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `disabled` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Disabled input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```
---
author: Karen Key
---

Page content goes here.
```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Options

You can configure Text inputs using the `options` key under your input key, inside of `_inputs`.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  seo_description:
    type: textarea
    options:
      show_count: true
      empty_type: null

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Text inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="show_count" type_markdown="Boolean">
    This key toggles a character counter.

    Available for Textarea input only.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    This key determines how CloudCannon handles an empty value. This key does not apply to existing empty values.

    Value must be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as "".
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Unconfigured Text inputs

In some cases, CloudCannon can still detect a Text input even if you have not configured it.

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with the key name:

* `textarea` or `description`, or that ends in `_textarea` or `_description`, as a Textarea input.
* `email` or `email_address`, or that ends in `_email` or `_email_address`, as a Textarea input.

<comp.CodeBlock language="YAML" source="data.yml">
``````````
image_description: /images/forest.jpeg
``````````
</comp.CodeBlock>

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with a string value as a Text input, provided that the key name does not match the naming convention for any other input type.

This behavior is convenient if you have simple inputs, or do not want to configure inputs. It is also beneficial for new websites on CloudCannon where you have yet to create any CloudCannon-specific configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  We recommend configuring your inputs for greater control over their functionality and appearance.
</comp.Notice>

## Valid values

Text inputs can have multiple valid values for empty, single line, and multiline content. Here are some examples of valid values for the key `text`. These work for Text, Textarea, and Email inputs

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `text: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `text: ""`
    * `text: ''`
    * `text: any string`
    * `text: "any string"`
    * `text: 'any string'`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * <code>text: ><br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: >-<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: >+<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |-<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |+<br/>  multiline string</code>
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `text = ""`
    * `text = "any string"`

    Any valid escaped string:
    * `text = ''`
    * `text = 'any string (literal)'`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * <code>text = """<br/>  multiline string"""</code>
    * <code>text = """\\<br/>  multiline string (trimmed) \\<br/>  """</code>
    * <code>text = '''<br/>  literal multiline string'''</code>
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"text": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"text": ""`
    * `"text": "any string"`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * `"text": "multiline \n string"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>

Commit message:

Mention that Textarea inputs allow newlines to be added

articles/text-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: dc0eabff-27d7-4c59-9c0b-4db0b4b6b9c5
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: Text inputs
nav_title: Text inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a Text input to store plain text content in your data
  files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Instructions
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
---
A text input lets your team members add plain text to your data files or front matter.

There are four types of Text input:

* Text
* Textarea
* Email
* Disabled

For each input, you can configure how CloudCannon handles null values. For Textarea inputs, you can configure a character counter. You can also use the [general configuration options](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/#general-configuration-options) available for all inputs.

## Text

The Text input provides a simple editing interface for plain text.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Text-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Text input in the Data Editor." title="The Text input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Text input using the `type` key with the value `text`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  blog_title___2___:
    type___3___: text

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Text input is called `blog_title`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `text` input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Text input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```

---
blog_title: The benefits of static sites
---

Page content goes here.

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Textarea

The Textarea input provides an editing interface for plain text which is resizable and allows newlines to be added.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Textarea-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Textarea input in the Data Editor, with a resizable text box." title="The Textarea input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Textarea input using the `type` key with the value `textarea`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  page_description___2___:
    type___3___: textarea

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Textarea input is called `page_description`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `textarea` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Textarea input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```

---
page_description: This page is about how to configure your inputs.
---

Page content goes here.

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Email

The Email input provides an editing interface for plain text with an email icon for context.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Email-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of the Email input in the Data Editor." title="The Email input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure an Email input using the `type` key with the value `email`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  contact_address___2___:
    type___3___: email

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Email input is called `contact_address`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `email` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Email input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```

---
contact_address: support@cloudcannon.com
---

Page content goes here.

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Disabled

The Disabled input is a single line of read-only plain text. The field for this input appears grayed-out, and you can only edit the value in the Source Editor.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/inputs/text/2024-07/CloudCannon-Documentation-Disabled-Text-Input.png" alt="A screenshot of a disabled Text input in the Data Editor." title="A disabled Text input" type="ui-snippet"/>

You can configure a Disabled input using the `type` key with the value `disabled`. Define the `type` key under your input key name within `_inputs`. For more information, please read our documentation on [configuring your inputs](/documentation/articles/configure-your-inputs/).

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs___1___:
  author___2___:
    type___3___: disabled

```
<comp.Annotation number="1">
  All inputs are defined under the `_inputs` key, regardless of where they are in the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="2">
  This Disabled input is called `author`.
</comp.Annotation>
<comp.Annotation number="3">
  The value of the `type` key determines the input type. This is a `disabled` Text input.
</comp.Annotation>
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Once configured, the Disabled input will appear in the Data Editor or sidebar of the Visual or Content Editor when you add it to a data file or the front matter of a markup file.

<comp.CodeBlock language="Markdown" source="about.md">
```

---
author: Karen Key
---

Page content goes here.

```
</comp.CodeBlock>

## Options

You can configure Text inputs using the `options` key under your input key, inside of `_inputs`.

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="YAML" translate_into={["json"]} source="cloudcannon.config.yml">
```

_inputs:
  seo_description:
    type: textarea
    options:
      show_count: true
      empty_type: null

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

Text inputs have the following options available:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="show_count" type_markdown="Boolean">
    This key toggles a character counter.

    Available for Textarea input only.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    This key determines how CloudCannon handles an empty value. This key does not apply to existing empty values.

    Value must be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as "".
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Unconfigured Text inputs

In some cases, CloudCannon can still detect a Text input even if you have not configured it.

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with the key name:

* `textarea` or `description`, or that ends in `_textarea` or `_description`, as a Textarea input.
* `email` or `email_address`, or that ends in `_email` or `_email_address`, as a Textarea input.

<comp.CodeBlock language="YAML" source="data.yml">
``````````

image_description: /images/forest.jpeg

``````````
</comp.CodeBlock>

CloudCannon will interpret any unconfigured input with a string value as a Text input, provided that the key name does not match the naming convention for any other input type.

This behavior is convenient if you have simple inputs, or do not want to configure inputs. It is also beneficial for new websites on CloudCannon where you have yet to create any CloudCannon-specific configuration.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  We recommend configuring your inputs for greater control over their functionality and appearance.
</comp.Notice>

## Valid values

Text inputs can have multiple valid values for empty, single line, and multiline content. Here are some examples of valid values for the key `text`. These work for Text, Textarea, and Email inputs

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `text: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `text: ""`
    * `text: ''`
    * `text: any string`
    * `text: "any string"`
    * `text: 'any string'`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * <code>text: ><br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: >-<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: >+<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |-<br/>  multiline string</code>
    * <code>text: |+<br/>  multiline string</code>
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `text = ""`
    * `text = "any string"`

    Any valid escaped string:
    * `text = ''`
    * `text = 'any string (literal)'`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * <code>text = """<br/>  multiline string"""</code>
    * <code>text = """\\<br/>  multiline string (trimmed) \\<br/>  """</code>
    * <code>text = '''<br/>  literal multiline string'''</code>
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"text": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"text": ""`
    * `"text": "any string"`

    Any valid multiline string:
    * `"text": "multiline \n string"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>
