articles/the-visual-editor.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b504c79e-c71a-4cf0-a968-1906b597930e
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: The Visual Editor
nav_title: The Visual Editor
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about the features of CloudCannon's Visual Editor. This editing
  interface offers an interactive preview of your site for editing directly onto
  the page.
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
The Visual Editor is an interactive preview of your site, allowing you to navigate your pages as you would on your live site and edit directly onto the page. This editing interface works for any file that outputs to an HTML page on your site.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Depending on your SSG and site configuration, you may not have access to the Visual Editor for all files. An editing interface may not be available because:

  * Some SSGs are incompatible with the Visual Editor (e.g., Docusaurus, MkDocs).
  * A Developer on your team has [specified which editing interfaces are enabled](/documentation/articles/set-a-default-editing-interface/) for a particular [collection](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/) or [schema.](/documentation/articles/create-a-schema/)
</comp.Notice>

## Visual Editor features

The Visual Editor empowers your team to see results instantly. There is no need to wait for your site to build to preview your edits.

Often, multiple files contribute to a single page on your website. You might have a markup file for the main body of content on a page (e.g., a blog), structured data files for your website header, footer, and navigation, and more files contributing to images, \[x\]. Using the Visual Editor, you can edit all these files simultaneously without leaving a preview of the web page they output. When you save your changes, CloudCannon will save all updated files at the same time.

Editing your site is easy. You can navigate your site by clicking links on the page, just like on your live site. Your developers can clearly define which content your team can edit, protecting what shouldn’t be altered and handing over the reins for everything else. CloudCannon also preserves all of your styles and JavaScript in the Visual Editor.

Visual editing occurs in one of two ways:

* Editable regions — Edit the content of markup files using the `class=editable` attribute in any element.
* Data bindings — Edit the values of keys in your front matter or structured data files using the `data-cms-bind=" "` attribute in any element.

Which visual editing approach is right for you will depend on your SSG and site configuration.

For more information about the *Editing interface navigation* and the *Context menu* at the top of the Visual Editor, read our documentation on <a href="/documentation/articles/edit-your-files" target="_blank" rel="noopener">editing your files</a>.

### Visual editing using editable regions

x

### Visual editing using data bindings

x

Commit message:

Add article topic and diataxis category

articles/the-visual-editor.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: b504c79e-c71a-4cf0-a968-1906b597930e
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: The Visual Editor
nav_title: The Visual Editor
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about the features of CloudCannon's Visual Editor. This editing
  interface offers an interactive preview of your site for editing directly onto
  the page.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Editing interfaces
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links:
---
The Visual Editor is an interactive preview of your site, allowing you to navigate your pages as you would on your live site and edit directly onto the page. This editing interface works for any file that outputs to an HTML page on your site.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Depending on your SSG and site configuration, you may not have access to the Visual Editor for all files. An editing interface may not be available because:

  * Some SSGs are incompatible with the Visual Editor (e.g., Docusaurus, MkDocs).
  * A Developer on your team has [specified which editing interfaces are enabled](/documentation/articles/set-a-default-editing-interface/) for a particular [collection](/documentation/articles/define-your-collections/) or [schema.](/documentation/articles/create-a-schema/)
</comp.Notice>

## Visual Editor features

The Visual Editor empowers your team to see results instantly. There is no need to wait for your site to build to preview your edits.

Often, multiple files contribute to a single page on your website. You might have a markup file for the main body of content on a page (e.g., a blog), structured data files for your website header, footer, and navigation, and more files contributing to images or videos. Using the Visual Editor, you can edit all these files simultaneously without leaving a preview of the web page they output. When you save your changes, CloudCannon will save all updated files at the same time.

Editing your site is easy. You can navigate your site by clicking links on the page, just like on your live site. Your developers can clearly define which content your team can edit, protecting what shouldn’t be altered and handing over the reins for everything else. CloudCannon also preserves all of your styles and JavaScript in the Visual Editor.

Visual editing occurs in one of two ways:

* Editable regions — Edit the content of markup files using the `class=editable` attribute in any element.
* Data bindings — Edit the values of keys in your front matter or structured data files using the `data-cms-bind=" "` attribute in any element.

Which visual editing approach is right for you will depend on your SSG and site configuration.

For more information about the *Editing interface navigation* and the *Context menu* at the top of the Visual Editor, read our documentation on <a href="/documentation/articles/edit-your-files" target="_blank" rel="noopener">editing your files</a>.

### Visual editing using editable regions

x

### Visual editing using data bindings

x
