articles/url-inputs.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 51b7b144-1aa7-49ea-ac81-2764498489d4
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: URL inputs
nav_title: URL inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Single line input for relative, absolute and fully qualified URLs. URL inputs
  show a preview of the target.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links: []
---
Single line input for relative, absolute and fully qualified URLs. URL inputs show a preview of the target. Previews for URLs without a protocol are requested prefixed with `http://`

URL inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `url`, or for keys matching:

* `url`
* `*_url`
* `link`
* `*_link`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/external.png" alt="external_url key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/internal.png" alt="internal_url key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/link.png" alt="link key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

external_url: 'https://bitbucket.org/'
internal_url: /editing/visual-editor/
link: github.com

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

another_website: 'https://github.com/'
_inputs:
  another_website:
    type: url

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Options

URL inputs have the following available options:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. If unset, the paths default to those configured in the [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/). The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default path when linking to an existing site file.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default path when linking to an existing [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) file.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    Set how an ‘empty’ value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `""`.
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **url** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `url: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `url: ""`
    * `url: ''`
    * `url: example.com`
    * `url: "example.com"`
    * `url: 'example.com'`
    * `url: "https://example.com"`

    URLs containing `:` must be surrounded by quotes
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `url = ""`
    * `url = ''`
    * `url = "example.com"`
    * `url = 'example.com'`
    * `url = "https://example.com"`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"url": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"url": ""`
    * `"url": "example.com"`
    * `"url": "https://example.com"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>

Commit message:

Update page description for all inputs

articles/url-inputs.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 51b7b144-1aa7-49ea-ac81-2764498489d4
_created_at: '2021-09-15 05:03:07 +0000'
title: URL inputs
nav_title: URL inputs
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn how to configure a URL input to store relative, absolute, and fully
  qualified URLs in your data files or front matter.
article_category:
  - Reference
article_topic:
  - Inputs
tags: []
related_articles:
  - how-to-choose-what-input-is-used-in-the-data-editor
  - using-the-configuration-cascade
related_links: []
---
Single line input for relative, absolute and fully qualified URLs. URL inputs show a preview of the target. Previews for URLs without a protocol are requested prefixed with `http://`

URL inputs are shown for inputs configured with the type `url`, or for keys matching:

* `url`
* `*_url`
* `link`
* `*_link`

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/external.png" alt="external_url key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/internal.png" alt="internal_url key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.DocsImage path="/documentation/static/inputs/url/link.png" alt="link key shown as a url input" title="" type="screenshot-snippet"/>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Naming convention">
```

external_url: 'https://bitbucket.org/'
internal_url: /editing/visual-editor/
link: github.com

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

<comp.MultiCodeBlock language="yaml" translate_into={["json", "toml"]} source="Input configuration">
```

another_website: 'https://github.com/'
_inputs:
  another_website:
    type: url

```
</comp.MultiCodeBlock>

### Options

URL inputs have the following available options:

<comp.DataReference>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="paths" type_markdown="Object">
    Paths to common folders. Each path is relative to [global](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) site `source`. If unset, the paths default to those configured in the [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/). The available keys are:

    * `uploads` for the default path when linking to an existing site file.
    * `dam_uploads` for the default path when linking to an existing [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) file.
    * `dam_static` for the location of statically copied assets for [DAM](/documentation/articles/introduction-to-assets-and-dams/) files.

    `uploads` and `dam_uploads` have a [number of dynamic placeholders available](/documentation/articles/adjusting-the-uploads-path/).
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
  <comp.DataReferenceRow label="empty_type" type_markdown="string">
    Set how an ‘empty’ value will be saved. Does not apply to existing empty values. Can be one of the following:

    * `string` - an empty value for this input will be stored as `""`.
    * `null` - an empty value for this input will be stored as a null value (default). This does not apply to TOML files.
  </comp.DataReferenceRow>
</comp.DataReference>

## Valid values

Documented below are the valid formats for **url** inputs.

The lists of examples are non-exhaustive.

<comp.Tabs label="Languages">
  <comp.Tab name="YAML">
    Empty/null value:
    * `url: `

    Any valid string (quoted or unquoted):
    * `url: ""`
    * `url: ''`
    * `url: example.com`
    * `url: "example.com"`
    * `url: 'example.com'`
    * `url: "https://example.com"`

    URLs containing `:` must be surrounded by quotes
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="TOML">
    Any valid string:
    * `url = ""`
    * `url = ''`
    * `url = "example.com"`
    * `url = 'example.com'`
    * `url = "https://example.com"`
  </comp.Tab>
  <comp.Tab name="JSON">
    Null value:
    * `"url": null`

    Any valid string:
    * `"url": ""`
    * `"url": "example.com"`
    * `"url": "https://example.com"`
  </comp.Tab>
</comp.Tabs>
