articles/using-sso-to-create-team-accounts.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a01c2606-bd15-4d5e-877f-1018cb6e2f72
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Using Single Sign On to create team member accounts
nav_title: Setting up SSO/SAML
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using
  CloudCannon with SAML.
tags:
  - Organizations
  - Authentication
  - Sharing
  - Guides
related_links:
---
Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using CloudCannon with SAML.

CloudCannon is set up as a Service Provider (SP) to allow Single Sign On (SSO) for your Organization. To use this feature, you need to be on our enterprise plan and already have your own Identity Provider (IdP).

## Configuring SAML

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  SAML can be a tricky thing to configure with only one end of debugging. If you would prefer manual assistance with setting up, please contact support.
</comp.Notice>

To configure SAML with your IdP you will need the following details:

* SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)
* Issuer
* X.509 Certificate

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  The issuer is configurable to allow multiple organizations from the same IdP. It must start with cloudcannon.com/. Leaving this blank will configure it as cloudcannon.com.
</comp.Notice>

To add these details:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *SAML*
2. Fill in all of the fields available and submit the form

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-2-details.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Once configured, you will get a screen defining any information you will need. If you require more information than displayed, please [contact support](mailto:support@cloudcannon.com).

Commit message:

Add Enterprise notice for SSO

articles/using-sso-to-create-team-accounts.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: a01c2606-bd15-4d5e-877f-1018cb6e2f72
_created_at: '2021-09-15 23:13:40 +0000'
title: Using Single Sign On to create team member accounts
nav_title: Setting up SSO/SAML
published: true
image: /documentation/static/CloudCannonDocumentationog.jpg
description: >-
  Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using
  CloudCannon with SAML.
tags:
  - Organizations
  - Authentication
  - Sharing
  - Guides
related_links:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is currently limited to customers on our <a href="/pricing/" rel="noreferrer">Enterprise plan</a>. Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

Enforce Single Sign On for your team members and increase security by using CloudCannon with SAML.

CloudCannon is set up as a Service Provider (SP) to allow Single Sign On (SSO) for your Organization. To use this feature, you need to be on our enterprise plan and already have your own Identity Provider (IdP).

## Configuring SAML

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  SAML can be a tricky thing to configure with only one end of debugging. If you would prefer manual assistance with setting up, please contact support.
</comp.Notice>

To configure SAML with your IdP you will need the following details:

* SAML 2.0 Endpoint (HTTP)
* Issuer
* X.509 Certificate

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  The issuer is configurable to allow multiple organizations from the same IdP. It must start with cloudcannon.com/. Leaving this blank will configure it as cloudcannon.com.
</comp.Notice>

To add these details:

1. Go to *Organization Settings* / *SAML*
2. Fill in all of the fields available and submit the form

<comp.DocsImage path="ye_olde_images/organisations-saml-2-details.png" alt="Screenshot of SAML interface" title="" type="screenshot"/>

Once configured, you will get a screen defining any information you will need. If you require more information than displayed, please [contact support](mailto:support@cloudcannon.com).
