articles/what-is-the-cloudcannon-configuration-file.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 37ee41fa-8ac5-407b-b9c3-6fe1ecac6e1e
_created_at: 2024-10-09T11:24:30+13:00
title: What is the CloudCannon configuration file?
nav_title: What is the CloudCannon configuration file?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description:
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Configuration file
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  As of October 2024, this documentation is only applicable to Sites using Unified Configuration.
  For Sites that have not migrated to Unified Configuration, please read the documentation on our [non-unified documentation website](https://non-unified.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/).
</comp.Notice>

Global configuration files contain your global CloudCannon configuration and top-level values for the [configuration cascade](https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).

Configuration is set in one of the following supported file types. CloudCannon will search the root directory for the first matching file from this list.

* `cloudcannon.config.json`
* `cloudcannon.config.yaml`
* `cloudcannon.config.yml`

This file is stored in the root directory of your repository (i.e. `/cloudcannon.config.*`). Alternatively, you can specify a custom location in the *Editing* section of your site settings.

The [global configuration](/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/) file is the heart of your integration with CloudCannon. You can create your configuration file locally or using the CloudCannon configuration GUI. When creating a new site, CloudCannon will guide you through creating a configuration file.

Commit message:

new copy for config file doc

articles/what-is-the-cloudcannon-configuration-file.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 37ee41fa-8ac5-407b-b9c3-6fe1ecac6e1e
_created_at: 2024-10-09T11:24:30+13:00
title: What is the CloudCannon configuration file?
nav_title: What is the CloudCannon configuration file?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn about the CloudCannon configuration file.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Configuration file
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  As of October 2024, this documentation is only applicable to Sites using Unified Configuration.
  For Sites that have not migrated to Unified Configuration, please read the documentation on our [non-unified documentation website](https://non-unified.cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-global-configuration-file/).
</comp.Notice>

The CloudCannon configuration file is the heart of your CloudCannon experience. As the name implies, the CloudCannon configuration file contains all the configuration for your Site. This includes the appearance and functionality of your app [navigation](/documentation/articles/configure-your-site-navigation/), [schemas](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-schema/), files, [inputs](/documentation/articles/what-are-inputs/), and [structures](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-structure/).

Your configuration file allows you to make CloudCannon your own, customizing your app experience for you and your [team members](/documentation/articles/what-is-a-team-member/).

After syncing your Site files, creating your CloudCannon configuration file should be the first thing you do. CloudCannon will prompt you to [create a configuration file](/documentation/articles/create-your-cloudcannon-configuration-file/) if it detects you don't have one.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

CloudCannon supports the following configuration file types:

* `cloudcannon.config.json`
* `cloudcannon.config.yaml`
* `cloudcannon.config.yml`

By default, CloudCannon assumes your configuration file is in the root folder of your Git repository, however you can [define a custom configuration file path](/documentation/articles/define-a-custom-configuration-file-path/) if your file is within a nested folder.

CloudCannon preferentially uses configuration from files with a custom configuration path. If you have not defined a custom filepath, then CloudCannon will use the configuration defined in the first file in the root directory, searching in alphabetical order.

You can open your CloudCannon configuration file in the [Data Editor](/documentation/articles/the-data-editor/) or the [Source Editor](/documentation/articles/the-data-editor/). To open your CloudCannon configuration file, navigate to the *Editing* page under *Site Settings* and click the *Edit your configuration file* button.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/editing/create-cloudcannon-configuration-file/2024-10/CloudCannon-Documentation-Site-Settings-Editing-Page.png" alt="A screenshot of the Editing page in Site Settings shows the Edit your configuration file button." title="The Editing page" type="screenshot"/>

## The configuration cascade

The CloudCannon configuration file is the first level in the configuration cascade, which means any configuration defined here will affect all the files on your Site. This makes it a great place to configure the default appearance and behavior you want. You can configure more specific

For more information, please read our documentation on the [configuration cascade](/documentation/articles/using-the-configuration-cascade/).
