articles/what-is-a-site-build.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 4ec69df4-a6d9-4ff1-8d1e-19781acd55b0
_created_at: 2024-08-28T13:07:32+12:00
title: What is a Site build?
nav_title: What is a Site build?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn about building your Site in CloudCannon
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Sites
  - Builds
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
A “build” is when CloudCannon converts all your Site files into a single, functional program.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Building is an optional step. If your Site is Dynamic, or you only want to use CloudCannon as a CMS for your git repository, you don’t need to build. For more information, please read our guide on using [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
</comp.Notice>

&nbsp;

## Starting a build

x

## What happens during a build?

CloudCannon uses a CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery) system. Every time you trigger a build of your Site, CloudCannon will:

1. Download your files onto our server.
2. Run your selected install commands (e.g., `npm install`, `bundle install`).
3. Run your selected build commands (e.g., `npm run build`).
4. Index your output files.
5. Upload your output files to CloudCannon to generate previews (i.e., the test domain, visual editor, and in-app screenshots) and deliver to your live domain (if you are [hosting with CloudCannon](/documentation/articles/using-cloudcannon-dns-to-configure-your-custom-domain/)).

Additionally, you can [configure build hooks](/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/) to run extra commands during your Site build. Build hooks are useful for downloading external data, running test commands, and more.

CloudCannon runs your build commands using `bash`, in an isolated environment powered by `Ubuntu`. For more information, please read our documentation on [Node.js](/documentation/articles/managing-your-node-version-with-nvm/), [Ruby](/documentation/articles/managing-your-ruby-version/), and [Go](/documentation/articles/what-version-of-go-is-used-in-the-build-environment/).

&nbsp;

The build commands are run using `bash` in an isolated environment powered by `Ubuntu` which has a comprehensive list of build tools and programming languages installed. Most software installed comes with a version manager which allows you to keep consistency between builds. This is covered in the build environment section of the documentation.

## Reading your build outputs

While CloudCannon is building your Site, you can read the build output files by clicking on the*View output* button in the notification at the bottom right of the app.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

x

copy output

Scroll to bottom

Show timing

You can view old build outputs on page...

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

As builds run they produce logs which are crucial for understanding what is happening. These logs are available live in a terminal within your Site / Status page. From here you can also dig into your previous builds. This can be useful for tracking down when issues started occurring.

These logs come with timing metrics which can assist with improving your build speed. If your build fails for any reason, be sure to check the build logs first. We also provide some automated suggestions for common build errors to help you get back to a successful build quicker.

## Caching between builds

To improve the speed of your builds, CloudCannon attempts to send consecutive builds from a single Site to the same server. You can configure file caching so that CloudCannon only uses server time for files which have updated between builds. This allows you to skip expensive and repetitive operations.

Caching is great for minimizing the effect of build steps that are typically slow, such as image optimization, installing dependencies, and external data fetching. For more information, please read our documentation on how to configure caching between builds.

---

Once your files are synced to CloudCannon the next step is to run your build. This mirrors your local development environment: Every time your files change, a build is run to produce your website. This workflow allows you to have complete control over how your website looks and functions.

## Setting up your build

When setting up a site you will be asked how to build your static site from your source files. This includes options for:

1. Selecting your SSG and its CLI options
2. Setting environment variables
3. Setting the folder that will contain your built site
4. CloudCannon specific options

If you have any questions about the options in your build, see the [Configuring your build](/documentation/articles/configuring-your-build/) document or contact support.

## How builds are started

Builds can be started by:

1. Files being changed from Git or within the editing interfaces
2. Changing build configuration (e.g. CLI options, SSG Choice, caching options or toggling building locked)
3. Triggering a rebuild from the Site / Status page
4. Using [automatic scheduling](/documentation/articles/scheduling-your-next-build-automatically/) or [manual scheduling](/documentation/articles/scheduling-your-builds-manually/)
5. Using our API currently on private beta

Sites can be prevented from building by turning on ‘Building Locked’ within the site settings. This is useful when you want to manage a deployment more manually. Most editing configuration is read at build time, so changes to configuration may be delayed while building is locked.

Commit message:

more copy for "what is a build"

articles/what-is-a-site-build.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 4ec69df4-a6d9-4ff1-8d1e-19781acd55b0
_created_at: 2024-08-28T13:07:32+12:00
title: What is a Site build?
nav_title: What is a Site build?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about building your Site in CloudCannon, including what happens during
  an build, how to review build logs, and why building might benefit your Site.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Sites
  - Builds
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
A “build” is when CloudCannon converts all your Site files into a single, functional program.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  Building is an optional step. If your Site is Dynamic, or you only want to use CloudCannon as a CMS for your git repository, you don’t need to build. For more information, please read our guide on using [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
</comp.Notice>

&nbsp;

## Starting a build

x

## What happens during a build?

CloudCannon uses a CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery) system. Every time you trigger a build of your Site, CloudCannon will:

1. Download your files onto our server.
2. Run your selected install commands (e.g., `npm install`, `bundle install`).
3. Run your selected build commands (e.g., `npm run build`).
4. Index your output files.
5. Upload your output files to CloudCannon to generate previews (i.e., the test domain, visual editor, and in-app screenshots) and deliver to your live domain (if you are [hosting with CloudCannon](/documentation/articles/using-cloudcannon-dns-to-configure-your-custom-domain/)).

Additionally, you can [configure build hooks](/documentation/articles/extending-your-build-process-with-hooks/) to run extra commands during your Site build. Build hooks are useful for downloading external data, running test commands, and more.

CloudCannon runs your build commands using `bash`, in an isolated environment powered by `Ubuntu`. In addition to bash, CloudCannon uses several other programs and libraries, such as Deno, Go, Node.js, and Ruby. You can [pin a version of these dependencies](/documentation/articles/pin-your-dependency-version/) to maintain consistency between builds.

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  For more information about CloudCannon's build environment, please contact our [support team](/support/).
</comp.Notice>

## Reading your build output logs

CloudCannon produces a log every time it runs a build. You can use your build log to follow along with CloudCannon's build process and diagnose your build if CloudCannon runs into an error.

While CloudCannon is building your Site, you can read the build output files by clicking on the*View output* button in the notification at the bottom right of the app. This will open the build terminal.

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

The build terminal has three tools: the *Copy Output* button, and the checkboxes for *Scroll to bottom* and *Show timing*.

You can view old build logs on the *Status* page

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

As builds run they produce logs which are crucial for understanding what is happening. These logs are available live in a terminal within your Site / Status page. From here you can also dig into your previous builds. This can be useful for tracking down when issues started occurring.

These logs come with timing metrics which can assist with improving your build speed. If your build fails for any reason, be sure to check the build logs first. We also provide some automated suggestions for common build errors to help you get back to a successful build quicker.

## Caching between builds

To improve the speed of your builds, CloudCannon attempts to send consecutive builds from a single Site to the same server. You can configure file caching so that CloudCannon only uses server time for files which have updated between builds. This allows you to skip expensive and repetitive operations.

Caching is great for minimizing the effect of build steps that are typically slow, such as image optimization, installing dependencies, and external data fetching. For more information, please read our documentation on how to [configure caching between builds](/documentation/articles/configure-caching-between-builds/).

---

Once your files are synced to CloudCannon the next step is to run your build. This mirrors your local development environment: Every time your files change, a build is run to produce your website. This workflow allows you to have complete control over how your website looks and functions.

## Setting up your build

When setting up a site you will be asked how to build your static site from your source files. This includes options for:

1. Selecting your SSG and its CLI options
2. Setting environment variables
3. Setting the folder that will contain your built site
4. CloudCannon specific options

If you have any questions about the options in your build, see the [Configuring your build](/documentation/articles/configuring-your-build/) document or contact support.

## How builds are started

Builds can be started by:

1. Files being changed from Git or within the editing interfaces
2. Changing build configuration (e.g. CLI options, SSG Choice, caching options or toggling building locked)
3. Triggering a rebuild from the Site / Status page
4. Using [automatic scheduling](/documentation/articles/scheduling-your-next-build-automatically/) or [manual scheduling](/documentation/articles/scheduling-your-builds-manually/)
5. Using our API currently on private beta

Sites can be prevented from building by turning on ‘Building Locked’ within the site settings. This is useful when you want to manage a deployment more manually. Most editing configuration is read at build time, so changes to configuration may be delayed while building is locked.
