articles/what-are-permission-groups.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 08ef0dd3-2e81-434f-9f5c-21ccc404f627
_created_at: 2024-04-22T15:59:17+12:00
title: What are Permission Groups?
nav_title: What are Permission Groups?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about Permission Groups in CloudCannon. Permission Groups determine what
  actions your team members can perform within your Organization.
article_category:
  - Explanation
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

x

## Custom Permission Groups

x

## Default Permission Groups

CloudCannon provides several [default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) on all pricing plans, including four Groups with Global scope (i.e., Owners, Developers, Technical Editors, and Editors) and another three Groups per Site with Site scope for [Collaborators](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/) and [Clients](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-client-sharing/). Each of these Groups has a defined set of permissions so that you can select the appropriate level of control for each team member.

You cannot edit the resources or scope of default Permission Groups. Members of the Owners or Developers Permission Group can [invite team members to your Organization](/documentation/articles/manage-your-team-members/#add-a-team-member-to-your-organization) and [update which Permission Group team members belong to](/documentation/articles/manage-your-team-members/#update-a-team-members-permissions).

For more information, please read our documentation on [default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/).

## Multiple Permission Groups

You can be a member of multiple Permission Groups.

Permission Groups are always additive. In other words, permissions from one Group do not negate permissions from another. CloudCannon will allow an action if a team member has permission from at least one source.

Let’s walk through an example.

Heather is a member of Permission Group A, allowing her to access [the Source Editor](/documentation/articles/the-source-editor/) editing interface. She is also a member of Permission Group B, which does not include permission to use the Source Editor. In this example, CloudCannon will allow Heather to use the Source Editor because she has permission to do so as a member of Permission Group A.

The additive nature of Permission Groups is less relevant for default Permission Groups, as all default Groups are hierarchical (meaning that each Group also contains the permissions of all Groups below it in the hierarchy). However, for custom Permission Groups, this also extends to any [exceptions](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/#exceptions) defined in a Group. If one Group allows an action, an exception in a second Permission Group does not prevent access to that resource.

Commit message:

Add custom permission group para

articles/what-are-permission-groups.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 08ef0dd3-2e81-434f-9f5c-21ccc404f627
_created_at: 2024-04-22T15:59:17+12:00
title: What are Permission Groups?
nav_title: What are Permission Groups?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about Permission Groups in CloudCannon. Permission Groups determine what
  actions your team members can perform within your Organization.
article_category:
  - Explanation
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
x

<comp.DocsImage path="" alt="" title=""/>

x

## Default Permission Groups

CloudCannon provides several [default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/) on all pricing plans, including four Groups with Global scope (i.e., Owners, Developers, Technical Editors, and Editors) and another three Groups per Site with Site scope for [Collaborators](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/) and [Clients](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-client-sharing/). Each of these Groups has a defined set of permissions so that you can select the appropriate level of control for each team member.

You cannot edit the resources or scope of default Permission Groups. Members of the Owners or Developers Permission Group can [invite team members to your Organization](/documentation/articles/manage-your-team-members/#add-a-team-member-to-your-organization) and [update which Permission Group team members belong to](/documentation/articles/manage-your-team-members/#update-a-team-members-permissions).

For more information, please read our documentation on [default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/default-permission-groups/).

## Custom Permission Groups

For [Team and Enterprise plan customers](/pricing/), CloudCannon allows you to create [custom Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/). Custom Permission Groups give you fine-grained control over the permissions in your Organization.

Using custom Groups, you can edit which resources are available to each Group and alter the scope of a Group from Global to Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain. You can also define file globs and exceptions for each Group for more precise permissions.

For more information, please read our documentation on [custom Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/) and [how to configure custom Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/configure-custom-permission-groups/).

## Multiple Permission Groups

You can be a member of multiple Permission Groups.

Permission Groups are always additive. In other words, permissions from one Group do not negate permissions from another. CloudCannon will allow an action if a team member has permission from at least one source.

Let’s walk through an example.

Heather is a member of Permission Group A, allowing her to access [the Source Editor](/documentation/articles/the-source-editor/) editing interface. She is also a member of Permission Group B, which does not include permission to use the Source Editor. In this example, CloudCannon will allow Heather to use the Source Editor because she has permission to do so as a member of Permission Group A.

The additive nature of Permission Groups is less relevant for default Permission Groups, as all default Groups are hierarchical (meaning that each Group also contains the permissions of all Groups below it in the hierarchy). However, for custom Permission Groups, this also extends to any [exceptions](/documentation/articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups/#exceptions) defined in a Group. If one Group allows an action, an exception in a second Permission Group does not prevent access to that resource.
