articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 02aa9312-b52a-4f94-90de-0ac8c2f7a4eb
_created_at: 2024-04-22T15:46:33+12:00
title: What are Custom Permission Groups?
nav_title: What are Custom Permission Groups?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about Custom Permission Groups in CloudCannon. Custom Permission Groups
  give you fine-grained control over your team members' permissions.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Custom Permission Groups
  - Permission Groups
tags:
  - permissions
related_articles:
  - articles/configure-custom-permission-groups.mdx
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is available to customers on our [Team and Enterprise plans](/pricing/). Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a href="mailto:success@cloudcannon.com?subject=A%20question%20about%20custom%20Permission%20Groups" rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

## What are Custom Permission Groups?

Custom Permission Groups give you fine-grained control over the permissions in your Organizations.

Using Custom Permission Groups, you can:

* Select which resources are available to each Group and define what actions are allowed (Read, Write, or Create).
* Alter the scope of a permission from Global to Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain.
* Define file globs and exceptions for each Group for more precise permissions.
* Add multiple permissions and exceptions at different scopes.

The maximum number of Custom Permission Groups you can create will depend on your [pricing plan](/pricing/). For more information on Permission Groups in general, please read our documentation on [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/).

### Selecting resources

Custom Permission Groups use the same list of resources as [Default Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/). A resource is something you can interact with in CloudCannon, such as an individual Site, Pull Request settings, or billing information. Each resource has one or more associated actions: Read, Write, or Create.

Custom Permission Groups can have multiple permissions, each with their own scope, resources, and allowed actions. When you create a Custom Permission Group, you must select which resources you want to add and what actions you want to allow for each resource. Adding a resource to a permission will allow all members of that Group to interact with that resource.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-Permission-Modal.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows the option to select resources and scope for a Custom Permission Group." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

CloudCannon uses a tree structure to define resources. When you select a resource for your Custom Permission Group, you can choose a broad resource heading (e.g., `site:write`), or drill down to more specific resources (e.g., `site:settings:site-mounting:write` or `site:publish:pull-requests:merge:write`). Adding more specific resources allows your Permission Group to be as fine-grained as you require.

Let’s walk through an example.

We want to create a Permission Group where members cannot see any existing Sites in the Organization but can add new Sites, which they can then see and edit. This type of Permission Group might work well to keep teams within your Organization from accessing each other’s content. In this case, we should add the resource `site:create` but not `site:read` to our permission.

The create action allows you to create new instances of a resource (in this example, Sites). When you create an instance of a resource, CloudCannon will automatically give you permission to Read and Write that instance. By choosing not to add `site:read` to this permission, existing Sites in our Organization will not appear in the CloudCannon interface.

For more information, including a complete list of resources available, please read our reference documentation on [permissions](/documentation/articles/permissions-reference/).

### Permission scope

The scope of a permission defines how broadly it is applied. Permissions in the [Default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/) have a Global scope. Permissions for [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/) or [Client Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-client-sharing/) Groups have a Site scope.

With Custom Permission Groups, you can set a permission at one of five scopes: Global, Project, Site, Group, and Base Domain.

* **Global** — This scope encompasses your entire Organization (e.g., the resource `project:create` with the scope Global will allow all members of the Permission Group to create new Projects in your Organization, which they then have permission to edit).
* **Project** — This scope encompasses a specific Project (e.g., the resource `site:publish:pull-request:open:write` with a Project scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to create Pull Requests for any site within the chosen Project, but not merge them).
* **Site** — This scope encompasses a specific Site (e.g., the resource `site:analytics:read` with a Site scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to view the hosting and building analytics for the chosen Site).
* **Group** — This scope encompasses a specific Group (e.g., the resource `group:member:write` with a Group scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to edit the members of a specific Group).
* **Base Domain** — This scope encompasses a specific Base Domain (e.g., the resource `base-domain:settings:dns:write` with a Domain scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to edit DNS records for a specific domain).

Custom Permission Groups can include permissions with different scopes. For example, you might want to create a Group that can approve Pull Requests for a specific Project and manage the Domain associated with one Site in that Project. This Permission Group would contain two permissions: one with a Project scope and the resource `site:publish:pull-request:merge:write`, and one with a Base Domain scope and the resource `base-domain:write`.

When you select Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain as a scope, CloudCannon will prompt you to select the Target of that scope.

* **Target** — Which instance you want a scope to pertain to (e.g., name the specific Site or Permission Group).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-Permission-Modal-Group-Scope.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows that selecting the Group scope will add a Target field." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

Not all resources work with all scopes. For example, you can’t give someone the resource `project:delete:write` with a Site scope, as Sites cannot contain Projects, or `org:billing:write` with a Group scope, as you cannot control billing at the Group level. When you create a Custom Permission Group, CloudCannon will filter out the resources that don’t apply to your scope.

### Exceptions

Exceptions allow you to set broad permissions and then remove specific permissions from a Group. For example, a team member might have permission to edit all Sites within a Project except for the Production Site.

You can add multiple exceptions to a Custom Permission Group. For each exception you must select a scope and a list of resources.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Custom-Permission-Group-With-Exception.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create A New Group page shows a new permission and a new exception added to the Group." title="The Create A New Group page" type="screenshot"/>

Permission Groups are always additive. In other words, permissions or exceptions in  one Group do not negate permissions or exceptions in another. If one Group allows an action, an exception in a second Permission Group does not prevent access to that resource.

Exceptions are more efficient than explicitly providing permission for many resources. Let’s walk through an example.

We want to prevent a team member from editing the Production site but enable editing for all other Sites within the Project. We could explicitly give permission for all those Sites. However, each time someone adds a new Site to the Project, we would need to update the Permission Group. Using an exception, we can remove permission for a single site and set the scope of the Permission Group as “Project” to allow editing permissions for all future Sites.

### Specify a file glob

A file glob is a pattern used to identify matching files. Files globs look similar to a file path with a mix of literal text and special characters such as `*` and `{ }`. In CloudCannon, you can specify read or write access to specific file globs in a Custom Permission Group. You can can specify which collections, folders, filenames, and file extensions a team member is allowed to read or edit, allowing for fine-grain control over reading and editing site files.

A read or write action is associate with each file glob. Additionally, when you specify a file glob in a permission or an exception, this will override any `site:files:read` and `site:files:write` resources selected from the resource tree. Because specifying a file glob implicitly includes the resource for read or write, the `site:files` checkbox in the resource tree is enabled by default.

To create a file glob, type the file path of any files you want to determine access for. For more general file paths, you can create a glob using the special characters `*` and `{ }`. The `*` character denotes any file, while `/**/` denotes any number of folder. Using the `{ }` brackets, you can specify a list of options separated by a comma.

For example, if we add a permission to write the file glob `/posts/**/*.{md,html}`, CloudCannon will allow members of this Permission Group to read and edit any Markdown or HTML files within any subfolders of the Collection "Posts".

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-File-Glob.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows two fields specifying file globs, one at read level and one at write." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

For best practices and examples of how to use file globs, please read our documentation on [file glob best practices](/documentation/articles/best-practices-for-custom-permission-groups/#file-globs).

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  If you need assistance setting up file globs in your Organization, our [support team](/support/) is always happy to help.
</comp.Notice>

## Default vs. Custom Permission Groups

CloudCannon provides [Default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups) on every pricing plan. The Default Permission Groups (Owner, Developer, Technical Editor, and Editor) are hierarchical, meaning that each Group also contains the permissions of all Groups below it in the hierarchy. Default Permission Groups are convenient if you have fewer team members, less complex sharing requirements, or do not want to configure Custom Permission Groups.

The Default Permission Groups may not be right for you if:

* You want non-hierarchical Permission Groups.
* You want to define a subset of your Sites that team members can access (e.g., a project, all sites except the production Site, or a specific Site).
* You want to define who can perform specific actions (e.g., making vs approving pull requests, reading vs editing content, branching, inbox management).
* You want to prevent a team member from accessing existing Sites but allow them to create new Sites in your Organization, which they can edit.
* You want to define which files within a Site a team member can edit (e.g., a collection, specific file types, or a single file).

Because Default Permission Groups have a Global scope, CloudCannon will give Group members the same permissions for every Site in your Organization. Additionally, you cannot edit the permissions granted by Default Permission Groups.

You can overcome these limitations by creating Custom Permission Groups.

## Custom Permission Groups vs. Site Sharing

Using the four Global Default Permission Groups, you cannot limit access to an individual Site. You can address this problem using [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/sharing-on-a-per-site-basis/) or using Custom Permission Groups.

Site Sharing allows you to invite a team member to view, edit, and publish content for a specific Site. Each Site has two permission groups for Site Sharing, identical to the Technical Editor and Editor Default Permission Groups except with a Site scope.

Custom Permission Groups do everything Site Sharing does and more. For [Team and Enterprise customers](/pricing/), we recommend using Custom Permission Groups rather than Site Sharing for finer control over your content.

Commit message:

Add all file glob examples

articles/what-are-custom-permission-groups.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 02aa9312-b52a-4f94-90de-0ac8c2f7a4eb
_created_at: 2024-04-22T15:46:33+12:00
title: What are Custom Permission Groups?
nav_title: What are Custom Permission Groups?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: >-
  Learn about Custom Permission Groups in CloudCannon. Custom Permission Groups
  give you fine-grained control over your team members' permissions.
article_category:
  - Explanation
article_topic:
  - Custom Permission Groups
  - Permission Groups
tags:
  - permissions
related_articles:
  - articles/configure-custom-permission-groups.mdx
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
<comp.Notice info_type="important">
  This feature is available to customers on our [Team and Enterprise plans](/pricing/). Want to chat about whether this feature is right for you? Our support team is always <a href="mailto:success@cloudcannon.com?subject=A%20question%20about%20custom%20Permission%20Groups" rel="noreferrer">happy to hear from you</a>.
</comp.Notice>

## What are Custom Permission Groups?

Custom Permission Groups give you fine-grained control over the permissions in your Organizations.

Using Custom Permission Groups, you can:

* Select which resources are available to each Group and define what actions are allowed (Read, Write, or Create).
* Alter the scope of a permission from Global to Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain.
* Define file globs and exceptions for each Group for more precise permissions.
* Add multiple permissions and exceptions at different scopes.

The maximum number of Custom Permission Groups you can create will depend on your [pricing plan](/pricing/). For more information on Permission Groups in general, please read our documentation on [Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-permission-groups/).

### Selecting resources

Custom Permission Groups use the same list of resources as [Default Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/). A resource is something you can interact with in CloudCannon, such as an individual Site, Pull Request settings, or billing information. Each resource has one or more associated actions: Read, Write, or Create.

Custom Permission Groups can have multiple permissions, each with their own scope, resources, and allowed actions. When you create a Custom Permission Group, you must select which resources you want to add and what actions you want to allow for each resource. Adding a resource to a permission will allow all members of that Group to interact with that resource.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-Permission-Modal.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows the option to select resources and scope for a Custom Permission Group." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

CloudCannon uses a tree structure to define resources. When you select a resource for your Custom Permission Group, you can choose a broad resource heading (e.g., `site:write`), or drill down to more specific resources (e.g., `site:settings:site-mounting:write` or `site:publish:pull-requests:merge:write`). Adding more specific resources allows your Permission Group to be as fine-grained as you require.

Let’s walk through an example.

We want to create a Permission Group where members cannot see any existing Sites in the Organization but can add new Sites, which they can then see and edit. This type of Permission Group might work well to keep teams within your Organization from accessing each other’s content. In this case, we should add the resource `site:create` but not `site:read` to our permission.

The create action allows you to create new instances of a resource (in this example, Sites). When you create an instance of a resource, CloudCannon will automatically give you permission to Read and Write that instance. By choosing not to add `site:read` to this permission, existing Sites in our Organization will not appear in the CloudCannon interface.

For more information, including a complete list of resources available, please read our reference documentation on [permissions](/documentation/articles/permissions-reference/).

### Permission scope

The scope of a permission defines how broadly it is applied. Permissions in the [Default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups/) have a Global scope. Permissions for [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-site-sharing/) or [Client Sharing](/documentation/articles/share-a-site-with-client-sharing/) Groups have a Site scope.

With Custom Permission Groups, you can set a permission at one of five scopes: Global, Project, Site, Group, and Base Domain.

* **Global** — This scope encompasses your entire Organization (e.g., the resource `project:create` with the scope Global will allow all members of the Permission Group to create new Projects in your Organization, which they then have permission to edit).
* **Project** — This scope encompasses a specific Project (e.g., the resource `site:publish:pull-request:open:write` with a Project scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to create Pull Requests for any site within the chosen Project, but not merge them).
* **Site** — This scope encompasses a specific Site (e.g., the resource `site:analytics:read` with a Site scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to view the hosting and building analytics for the chosen Site).
* **Group** — This scope encompasses a specific Group (e.g., the resource `group:member:write` with a Group scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to edit the members of a specific Group).
* **Base Domain** — This scope encompasses a specific Base Domain (e.g., the resource `base-domain:settings:dns:write` with a Domain scope will allow all members of the Permission Group to edit DNS records for a specific domain).

Custom Permission Groups can include permissions with different scopes. For example, you might want to create a Group that can approve Pull Requests for a specific Project and manage the Domain associated with one Site in that Project. This Permission Group would contain two permissions: one with a Project scope and the resource `site:publish:pull-request:merge:write`, and one with a Base Domain scope and the resource `base-domain:write`.

When you select Project, Site, Group, or Base Domain as a scope, CloudCannon will prompt you to select the Target of that scope.

* **Target** — Which instance you want a scope to pertain to (e.g., name the specific Site or Permission Group).

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-Permission-Modal-Group-Scope.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows that selecting the Group scope will add a Target field." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

Not all resources work with all scopes. For example, you can’t give someone the resource `project:delete:write` with a Site scope, as Sites cannot contain Projects, or `org:billing:write` with a Group scope, as you cannot control billing at the Group level. When you create a Custom Permission Group, CloudCannon will filter out the resources that don’t apply to your scope.

For best practices and examples, please read our documentation on [best practices for selecting resources](/documentation/articles/best-practices-for-custom-permission-groups/#resources).

### Exceptions

Exceptions allow you to set broad permissions and then remove specific permissions from a Group. For example, a team member might have permission to edit all Sites within a Project except for the Production Site.

You can add multiple exceptions to a Custom Permission Group. For each exception you must select a scope and a list of resources.

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Custom-Permission-Group-With-Exception.png" alt="A screenshot of the Create A New Group page shows a new permission and a new exception added to the Group." title="The Create A New Group page" type="screenshot"/>

Permission Groups are always additive. In other words, permissions or exceptions in  one Group do not negate permissions or exceptions in another. If one Group allows an action, an exception in a second Permission Group does not prevent access to that resource.

Exceptions are more efficient than explicitly providing permission for many resources. Let’s walk through an example.

We want to prevent a team member from editing the Production site but enable editing for all other Sites within the Project. We could explicitly give permission for all those Sites. However, each time someone adds a new Site to the Project, we would need to update the Permission Group. Using an exception, we can remove permission for a single site and set the scope of the Permission Group as “Project” to allow editing permissions for all future Sites.

### Specify a file glob

A file glob is a pattern used to identify matching files. Files globs look similar to a file path with a mix of literal text and special characters such as `*` and `{ }`. In CloudCannon, you can specify read or write access to specific file globs in a Custom Permission Group. You can can specify which collections, folders, filenames, and file extensions a team member is allowed to read or edit, allowing for fine-grain control over reading and editing site files.

A read or write action is associate with each file glob. Additionally, when you specify a file glob in a permission or an exception, this will override any `site:files:read` and `site:files:write` resources selected from the resource tree. Because specifying a file glob implicitly includes the resource for read or write, the `site:files` checkbox in the resource tree is enabled by default.

To create a file glob, type the file path of any files you want to determine access for. For more general file paths, you can create a glob using the special characters `*` and `{ }`. The `*` character denotes any file, while `/**/` denotes any number of folder. Using the `{ }` brackets, you can specify a list of options separated by a comma.

For example, if we add a permission to write the file glob `/posts/**/*.{md,html}`, CloudCannon will allow members of this Permission Group to read and edit any Markdown or HTML files within any subfolders of the Collection "Posts".

<comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/sharing/permission-groups/2024-05/CloudCannon-Documentation-Add-File-Glob.png" alt="A screenshot of the Add Permission modal shows two fields specifying file globs, one at read level and one at write." title="The Add Permission modal" type="screenshot"/>

For best practices and examples of how to use file globs, please read our documentation on [file glob best practices](/documentation/articles/best-practices-for-custom-permission-groups/#file-globs).

<comp.Notice info_type="info">
  If you need assistance setting up file globs in your Organization, our [support team](/support/) is always happy to help.
</comp.Notice>

## Default vs. Custom Permission Groups

CloudCannon provides [Default Permission Groups](/documentation/articles/what-are-default-permission-groups) on every pricing plan. The Default Permission Groups (Owner, Developer, Technical Editor, and Editor) are hierarchical, meaning that each Group also contains the permissions of all Groups below it in the hierarchy. Default Permission Groups are convenient if you have fewer team members, less complex sharing requirements, or do not want to configure Custom Permission Groups.

The Default Permission Groups may not be right for you if:

* You want non-hierarchical Permission Groups.
* You want to define a subset of your Sites that team members can access (e.g., a project, all sites except the production Site, or a specific Site).
* You want to define who can perform specific actions (e.g., making vs approving pull requests, reading vs editing content, branching, inbox management).
* You want to prevent a team member from accessing existing Sites but allow them to create new Sites in your Organization, which they can edit.
* You want to define which files within a Site a team member can edit (e.g., a collection, specific file types, or a single file).

Because Default Permission Groups have a Global scope, CloudCannon will give Group members the same permissions for every Site in your Organization. Additionally, you cannot edit the permissions granted by Default Permission Groups.

You can overcome these limitations by creating Custom Permission Groups.

## Custom Permission Groups vs. Site Sharing

Using the four Global Default Permission Groups, you cannot limit access to an individual Site. You can address this problem using [Site Sharing](/documentation/articles/sharing-on-a-per-site-basis/) or using Custom Permission Groups.

Site Sharing allows you to invite a team member to view, edit, and publish content for a specific Site. Each Site has two permission groups for Site Sharing, identical to the Technical Editor and Editor Default Permission Groups except with a Site scope.

Custom Permission Groups do everything Site Sharing does and more. For [Team and Enterprise customers](/pricing/), we recommend using Custom Permission Groups rather than Site Sharing for finer control over your content.
