articles/why-choose-a-git-backed-cms.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0fdcbbcd-8a96-4798-98c5-eb31145f5872
_created_at: 2024-07-03T16:29:58+12:00
title: Why choose a Git-backed CMS?
nav_title: Why choose a Git-backed CMS?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description:
article_category:
  - Explanation
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Git is one of CloudCannon’s superpowers. For years, developers have used Git-based workflows for better version control, collaboration, and security. At CloudCannon, we believe everyone can benefit from Git: developers, non-technical content creators, and project owners.

x

CloudCannon is a Git-backed CMS. That means creating a Site through CloudCannon will automatically backup your files with a Git provider of your choice: GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket.

## Better version control

x

## Work in parallel

x

## Technical and non-technical collaboration

x

## Avoid overwriting others

Before Git, if two team members were working on the same file simultaneously, you ran the risk of one person's changes overwriting the other's (sometimes called a "Race Condition"). A Git-back CMS works to preserve everyone's contributions. Your Git provider will assess both changes line by line and seamlessly merge them if they don't conflict. If there are conflicting updates, you can choose which changes to prioritize or create another way to resolve the conflicting updates.

## Own your backups

You don't expect your CMS to lose your content. Most CMS services make backups of your content. But how easy is it for you to access your backups? And if you wanted to take your content to another service, could you download your files?

With CloudCannon, you control your content with no vendor lock-in (as it should be). It doesn't matter what happens to your physical hardware or local project files — or if you decide to move to another CMS. CloudCannon stores your content in your Git repository, and a cloud backup of every file and branch, including history, is always available.

## Open-source options

x

Commit message:

add desc and version control para

articles/why-choose-a-git-backed-cms.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 0fdcbbcd-8a96-4798-98c5-eb31145f5872
_created_at: 2024-07-03T16:29:58+12:00
title: Why choose a Git-backed CMS?
nav_title: Why choose a Git-backed CMS?
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/default-thumbnail/2023-Q4/CloudCannon-Documentation-Thumbnail.png
description: Learn why CloudCannon uses Git providers to store your files.
article_category:
  - Explanation
tags: []
related_articles: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical:
---
Git is one of CloudCannon’s superpowers. For years, developers have used Git-based workflows for better version control, collaboration, and security. At CloudCannon, we believe everyone can benefit from Git: developers, non-technical content creators, and project owners.

x

CloudCannon is a Git-backed CMS. That means creating a Site through CloudCannon will automatically backup your files with a Git provider of your choice: GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket.

## Better version control

When you want to update your Site in other CMSs, you usually have two options:

* Edit directly onto the live version of your Site and risk making mistakes public.
* Create a backup of your Site to preserve the old version while you experiment with the new one.

These methods can have drawbacks, such as inefficiency even in smaller teams, many versions of the same files with no clear link between them, or the risk of human error when you need to ensure all copies of the Site have the correct updated files.

Git allows you to avoid these pitfalls. A Git-backed CMS like CloudCannnon allows you to create multiple copies of your entire website. These copies (called “branches”) protect the main version of your Site while your team works on updates to your code or content. You can have as many branches as you need without losing track. Your Git provider will automatically record when you made each branch, who contributed to changes on that branch, and what exactly was changed (down to the line).

## Work in parallel

x

## Technical and non-technical collaboration

x

## Avoid overwriting others

Before Git, if two team members were working on the same file simultaneously, you ran the risk of one person's changes overwriting the other's (sometimes called a "Race Condition"). A Git-back CMS works to preserve everyone's contributions. Your Git provider will assess both changes line by line and seamlessly merge them if they don't conflict. If there are conflicting updates, you can choose which changes to prioritize or create another way to resolve the conflicting updates.

## Own your backups

You don't expect your CMS to lose your content. Most CMS services make backups of your content. But how easy is it for you to access your backups? And if you wanted to take your content to another service, could you download your files?

With CloudCannon, you control your content with no vendor lock-in (as it should be). It doesn't matter what happens to your physical hardware or local project files — or if you decide to move to another CMS. CloudCannon stores your content in your Git repository, and a cloud backup of every file and branch, including history, is always available.

## Open-source options

x
