guides/jekyll-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 734f8d7c-a553-4850-a79e-c7ea61be86c5
_created_at: 2023-10-06T14:50:48+13:00
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Jekyll.png
description: >-
  Configure the CloudCannon file editors to give your content team the best
  experience.
tags: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical: /documentation/guides/universal-starter-guide/editor-configuration/
---
<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Jekyll.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings" type="screenshot"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Any Jekyll options required to match your site. Common changes include specifying a custom config file, or enabling draft posts.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Plugin

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/cloudcannon-jekyll` after your SSG.

    The CloudCannon Jekyll Plugin is a tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    We'll cover the CloudCannon Configuration file in a later step of this guide. If you want to look under the hood or customize your setup further, this plugin is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/cloudcannon-jekyll">CloudCannon Jekyll plugin</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>

Commit message:

update description for "Build your site"

guides/jekyll-starter-guide/build-your-site.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 734f8d7c-a553-4850-a79e-c7ea61be86c5
_created_at: 2023-10-06T14:50:48+13:00
title: Build your Site
nav_title: Build your Site
order: 6
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Jekyll.png
description: >-
  Learn how to build your Site to use previews, the testing domain, and the Visual Editor.
tags: []
related_links: []
explicit_canonical: /documentation/guides/universal-starter-guide/editor-configuration/
---
<comp.CommonContent data={{ _file: "/usr/local/__site/src/_common_content/starter-guides/starter-guide-step-6.mdx" }}>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Build_Stage_Image">
    <comp.DocsImage path="https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Build-Jekyll.png" alt="A screenshot of the CloudCannon app shows drop-down menus for confirming your SSG and build settings." title="Confirm your build settings" type="screenshot"/>
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="SSG_Common_Build_Options">
    * Any required environment variables.
    * Any Jekyll options required to match your site. Common changes include specifying a custom config file, or enabling draft posts.
  </comp.SlotContent>
  <comp.SlotContent name="CloudCannon_Reader_Plugin_Paragraph">
    ## CloudCannon Plugin

    If you're reading your build logs in CloudCannon, you'll see a build step that runs `@cloudcannon/cloudcannon-jekyll` after your SSG.

    The CloudCannon Jekyll Plugin is a tool that scans your global configuration file and processes your collections. This tool runs automatically, so there isn't anything you need to do.

    We'll cover the CloudCannon Configuration file in a later step of this guide. If you want to look under the hood or customize your setup further, this plugin is open-source on GitHub at <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://github.com/CloudCannon/cloudcannon-jekyll">CloudCannon Jekyll plugin</a>.
  </comp.SlotContent>
</comp.CommonContent>
