guides/jekyll-starter-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 30d7c845-426a-41db-9025-1c7d756d9c63
_created_at: 2023-10-06T14:17:35+13:00
title: Introduction
nav_title: Introduction
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Jekyll.png
description: Learn how to set up your website on the CloudCannon Jekyll CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Jekyll starter guide! If you want to get your Jekyll Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Jekyll site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Jekyll site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, and configure Jekyll for the best CloudCannon experience.

Commit message:

Move intro content and rename Introduction step

guides/jekyll-starter-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
_schema: default
_uuid: 30d7c845-426a-41db-9025-1c7d756d9c63
_created_at: 2023-10-06T14:17:35+13:00
title: Getting started with CloudCannon
nav_title: Getting started with CloudCannon
order: 1
published: true
image: >-
  https://cc-dam.imgix.net/documentation/images/getting-started/Guide-Thumbnails/CloudCannon-Getting-Started-Thumbnail-Jekyll.png
description: Learn how to set up your website on the CloudCannon Jekyll CMS.
tags: []
related_links: []
---
Welcome to the CloudCannon Jekyll starter guide! If you want to get your Jekyll Site editable, built, and live on CloudCannon, you are in the right place.

Before we start, this guide assumes you already have a Jekyll site uploaded to a Git repository. Although you can <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/documentation/articles/create-a-site-with-direct-upload/">upload files directly</a> from your hard drive, we highly recommend using a Git repository.

Don’t have a Jekyll site yet? No worries! You can create one with our <a target="_blank" rel="noopener" href="https://cloudcannon.com/tutorials/">Jamstack tutorials for your favorite SSGs</a>.

In this guide we’ll cover how to create your first site, and configure Jekyll for the best CloudCannon experience.

## What is CloudCannon?

CloudCannon is a Git-based Content Management System. With CloudCannon, you can easily build and maintain your Jekyll Site using familiar Git workflows. Plus, your content team can effortlessly update and manage the content without knowing anything about Jekyll, Git, Markdown, or HTML.

If building on CloudCannon isn't the right option for you, please read our guide on setting up [CloudCannon in Headless Mode](/documentation/guides/headless-starter-guide/).
